"I have been meditating on the very great pleasure which a pair of fine eyes in the face of a pretty woman can bestow. " Some of my happiest, and most looked-forward-to days of the year are the ones that I reserve for the re-reading of Pride and Prejudice. To quote Austen herself from Sense and Sensibility: ‘if a book is well written, I always find it too short,’ explains perfectly how I feel about this book; no wonder she called this ‘my own darling child,’ for, for me, P&P is perfect in every conceivable way. It’s the kind of book, the moment you finished reading, you are tempted to start over again immediately. However, reviewing this is another matter… I’m excited, enraptured, but at the same time agitated, knowing that it’s impossible to do justice to the author nor to the book. "But such of us as wished to learn never wanted the means. We were always encouraged to read, and had all the masters that were necessary. " During my first reading of Pride and Prejudice, I had known I was hugely underqualified to review this book, though at the same time I had hoped, if I read all of her books, I might, in time, write an acceptable review for this masterpiece. Now that I’ve read them all, and also P&P for a second time, all I can say is I still don’t consider myself remotely qualified to write an objective review. But it is impossible not share one’s opinions after reading this: this book, for me, is as best as it could get. So, for the time being, I’ll have to be content with writing what I consider to be a subjective overview, which, I’m certain, does not do much justice. However, I hope that someday my sense in classical literature would become good enough to truly appreciate how remarkable this book is. "You shall not, for the sake of one individual, change the meaning of principle and integrity. " "Importance may sometimes be purchased too dearly. " "What praise is more valuable than the praise of an intelligent servant?" Starting with the plot, which has been thoroughly analyzed, criticized, and commented upon by thousands of readers, is surprisingly, at a glance, not that original, especially if you see this as a pure romance novel. True, there are many complications resulting from multiple relationships (or marriages), but overall, there are many similarities. But what this special is Austen’s narrative: the sly humor, witty observations, unique lens through which she views the society, and the deeper understanding of morals of characters, are all perfectly concocted using her flawless writing style. And then there’s Elizabeth; aside from inheriting traits like humor and wit from Austen, she is lively, curious, confident, but without becoming ‘too perfect’ (like some of the Austen’s other protagonists). She is as delightful as it could get. Rest of the characters are also similarly entertaining, with each one infused with a myriad of qualities to keep the story interesting. I don’t think there was a single poorly written character in this book, and that’s the first time I’ve ever said that about a book. And I don’t wish a single thing had turned out differently in this story. With the exception of some of the children’s books, that’s also a first for me. Sometimes it’s hard to believe, that this has been written over 200 years ago, or this ever becoming dated. Unlike with most romance novels, you will not see the reasoning, or common sense become lost in the middle of the story, which I think will help maintain that timelessness. "Affectation of candour is common enough — one meets with it everywhere. But to be candid without ostentation or design — to take the good of everybody’s character and make it still better, and say nothing of the bad—belongs to you alone. " This second reading of the book only strengthened above opinions from my first read. If anything, everything felt even clearer, making the reading experience further satisfying. The only minor exception came with Lydia’s plotline. Compared to my opinion from the first reading, where I had been a bit angry with her, has been somewhat shifted a little towards sympathy this time. Obviously, same couldn’t be said about Wickham though. I also felt like that every single word here is essential during this second read. Although I didn’t skip a single word during the first time, I believe I enjoyed each sentence a lot more this time. "Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used synonymously. A person may be proud without being vain. Pride relates more to our opinion of ourselves, vanity to what we would have others think of us. " Until now (that is till I finish my second read), I’ve never watched any of the TV or movie adaptations of this book. To be honest, I didn’t want to have any negative impact towards the perfect imaginary picture Austen had created. But after this second read, I decided to watch the 2005 movie, the 1995 TV series and the 1980 series, and couldn’t resist sharing some of my thought. As much as I appreciate the effort, the 2005 movie did not prove to be a worthy portrayal, at least for me. Maybe it’s the modern characters, or what had to be removed due to time restrictions, or deviations from original book, but at the end of the day, I cannot say I loved it that much. But the 1995 series was quite the surprise! It literally had almost every single dialog from the book, with a few exceptions at the end. It did add up to five and a half hours of play time, but that was totally worth it. If you loved the book, and haven’t watched the series, do watch it immediately. As for the 1980 series, though I loved it a lot, it fell a tiny bit behind the 1995 series. But both those series are commendable portrayals. “Nothing is more deceitful,” said Darcy, “than the appearance of humility. "The misfortune of speaking with bitterness is a most natural consequence of the prejudices" As for this review, I’m going to label this as a work in progress, which I’m hoping to update after each re-read. "The distance is nothing when one has a motive;" The happiest, wisest, most reasonable end!

Old books get a bad rap. . . but do they deserve it? Check out my latest BooktTube Video - all about the fabulous (and not so fabulous) Olde Boies. The Written Review :To summarize: Mister. Darcy. *cue the long, sustained high-pitched squealing *This was truly as glorious as I remember. Every time I reread this novel, I love it more. The romance , the high society , the witty banter. Gah. I just adore it all. "And your defect is to hate everybody. ""And yours," he replied with a smile, "is willfully to misunderstand them. " Elizabeth Bennet (second eldest of the five Bennet sisters) is the one with a clear, level head. Jane is the beautiful one, Mary is the look-at-me-I'm-so-pious one, Lydia is the I'm-so-dumb-that-I'm-probably-going-to-get-murdered one and Kitty is the well-she's-just-kinda-there one. Now, back in the day. . . there was one, singular goal for all women above the age of 16. GET YOURSELF A MAN before you reach 25 and become a SPINSTER *cue high-society ladies fainting*. Mrs. Bennet (their mother) has taken this so completely to heart that she thinks of nothing else. After all, It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife. Mr. Bingley and Mr. Darcy moved into town and immediately Mrs. Bennett set her dasterdly plans in motion (on behalf of her mortified children). She will do whatever necessary to get a rich man to put a ring on it (oh Beyonce, your words are applicable in any century). A lady's imagination is very rapid; it jumps from admiration to love, from love to matrimony in a moment. Only, there is a snag in her otherwise flawless plans. Elizabeth is not going to roll over to whatever man is thrust her way. To her mother's ever-living-disappointment, Elizabeth has all the spunk and backbone of a truly glorious woman: I could easily forgive his pride, if he had not mortified mine. Truly a great read, no matter the century. Plus Jane Austen is totally my soul sister. I declare after all there is no enjoyment like reading! How much sooner one tires of any thing than of a book! -- When I have a house of my own, I shall be miserable if I have not an excellent library. Audiobook CommentsAs with most old-timey books, It is far easier for me to listen to them than to read them. I like hearing the odd phrases and ancient unused words much more than struggling through the hard copy. I really enjoyed this audiobook and the narrator did a fab job of characterization. The 2018 ABC Challenge - PYouTube | Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Snapchat @miranda. reads Happy Reading!

6. 0 stars. Confession. . . this book gave me an earth-shattering Janeaustegasm and I am feeling a bit spent and vulnerable at the moment, so please bear with me. You see, I decided I wanted to get more literated by reading the "classicals" in between my steady flow of science fiction, mystery and horror. The question was where to begin. After sherlocking through my Easton Press collection, I started by pulling out my Dickens and reading A Tale of Two Cities which I thought was jaw-dropping AMAZO and left me feeling warm, satisfied and content. It also made me made retrospectively pleased that I named my youngest daughter Sydney. After Two City “Tale”ing, I decided to give this book a whirl as I kept seeing it on GR lists of "goodest books ever. " However, I must admit I was hesitant going in to this for two big reasons. One, I thought it might be a bit too romantical for me. The second, and much more distressing, reason was that Twilight was on many of the same lists as this book. Austen fans should pull a nutty over that one. So needless to say I went into this thinking I might hate it. Well, for the 999,987th time in my life (at least according to my wife’s records). . . I was wrong! ! ! I absolutely loved this book and had a mammoth, raging heart-on for it from the opening scene at the breakfast table when Father Witty (Mr. Bennet) is giving sly sarcasm to Mrs. Mommie Put Upon. I literaphorically could not get enough of this story. I was instantly captivated by the characters and Elizabeth Bennet, the main protagonist, immediately became one of my all time favorite characters. Mr. Darcy joined that party as soon as he showed up in the narrative as I thought he was terrific as well. Overall, the writing could not have been better. It was descriptive, lush and brilliant. The story could not have been more engaging or intelligent and the characters could not have been more magnificentastic. Elizabeth and Fitz are both smart, witty, self-confident and good. Austen could not have written them better. Oh, and I am sorry if this is a bit of a minor spoiler but I need to add that George Wickham is a cock-blocking braggadouche of startling proportions. I needed to say that and now I feel better. This one has made it onto my list of All Time Favorite novels and is truly one of the classics that lives up to its billing. A FINAL WORD TO THE GUYS: . . . Guys, do not fear the Austen. . . embrace the Austen. . . HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION! ! !

I am so unqualified to write about this book. I am physically unqualified, because I could write infinite words about how much I love this book, and I type in a weird way that makes my wrists hurt so infinity is simply not going to happen. I am emotionally unqualified, because I lack emotional intelligence when it comes to my own feelings and the idea of trying to explain how I feel about this book is overwhelming. I am spiritually unqualified, because of the aforementioned overwhelmed-ness. I am also unqualified generally, in the grand scheme of things, because so many people have written so intelligently about the wonderfulness of this book and I have nothing better to add. Just more rambling like this. I read a lot of romance, and if you want to venture a theory as to why, I’d love to hear it. I very seldom like it, so maybe it’s a masochist tendency. Maybe I’m a glutton for the attention that writing negative reviews of popular books gives me. (Definitely not that one, since the few mean comments always outweigh the far more numerous nice ones in my stupid brain. ) Whatever. I read a lot of romance, but I almost never feel anything about it. I LOVE this book. It gives me. . . uh…(everyone stop reading this to save me the embarrassment and allow me to preserve my rough and tumble reputation). . . butterflies. I know. I’m cringing forever. But it’s true. This is a lovely book. It’s beautifully written, it’s funny, it’s filled with characters who feel full and real and different from one another (even though half of them have the same name), and it truly is the best love story ever told. What more could you ask for?! Spoiled rotten, the lot of you. Bottom line: A dream. -----------rereading updatesi am currently being paid to reread this book. highly recommend that everyone works in publishing--------pre-reviewstarting a fundraiser to raise money for a monument in honor of Jane Austen's brainreview to come / 5 stars obviously-----------currently-reading updatesmy heart has space for exactly 435 pages. the entirety of my heart is made up of Pride & Prejudice. nothing else.

"Pride and Prejudice" by Jane Austen started off annoying me and ended up enchanting me. Up until about page one hundred I found this book vexing, frivolous and down right tedious. I now count myself as a convert to the Austen cult. I must confess I have been known to express an antipathy for anything written or set before 1900. I just cannot get down with corsets, outdoor plumbing and buggy rides. Whenever someone dips a quill into an inkwell my eyes glaze over. This is a shortcoming I readily own up to but have no desire to correct. So I admit to not starting this book with the highest of hopes. I did really enjoy Ang Lee's "Sense and Sensibility" however and so when my friend threw the gauntlet down I dutifully picked it up. Boy did I hate him at first. To get anywhere with this book one has to immerse oneself in the realities of life and marriage in the nineteenth century. At first all this talk of entailment and manners just left me cold. I liked the language to be sure. Austen's dialogue is delightful through out but dialogue alone (no matter how delicious) does not a great novel make. A hundred pages or so in though I started to see what a shrewd eye for character this Austen woman had. Mr. Collins was the first person I marvelled at. His character springs forth fully formed as a total but somehow loveable ass. From that point on I found much to love about this book. I was so into it by the end that I was laughing at some characters, sympathizing with others and clucking my tongue at an unhappy few. In short I was completely absorbed. In conclusion I must now count myself a fan of Miss Austen's novels (and not just their fim adaptations) and do so look forward to acqauinting myself with more of her work in the future. "Emma" anyone?

NOTE: The review you are about to read was written in 2009. 2009! That's over 10 years ago! I was 17 and thought I was the smartest person ever! In all honesty, I barely remember this book. So, negative comments regarding my intelligence are no longer necessary. They will be ignored. As they have been for probably 7 years now. CARRY ON! P. S. Can we all just LOL at my use of the words "mind-numbing balls"?? HA. This book is quite possibly the most insipid novel I have ever read in my life. Why this book is so highly treasured by society is beyond me. It is 345 pages of nothing. The characters are like wispy shadows of something that could be interesting, the language that could be beautiful ends up becoming difficult to decipher and lead me more than once to skip over entire paragraphs because I became tired of having to stumble through them only to emerge unsatisfied, and the plot is non-existent, as though Austen one day decided she wanted to write a novel and began without having any idea what would happen except that there would be a boy and a girl who seemingly didn’t like each other but in the end got married. The story really probably could have been told in about 8 pages, but Austen makes us slog through 345 pages of mind-numbing balls and dinner-parties. I don’t care what anyone says, this is not great literature. This is a snore. Read my review of Pride and Prejudice and Zombies.

Where my massive crush on Jane Austen began: alone, on a hot day in Montana, cursing her name. I had to read it for AP English and I could not see the point. Girls need to marry. Girls can't get married. Girls are sad. Girls get married. Girls are happy. I went to school to half heartedly discuss it and waffled and wavered in an effort to please my teacher. Finally she said: "was it good or not, Ben?" "No it wasn't. ""Thank you. . . now read this twenty pages of literary criticism for homework. "Twenty pages of literary criticism later, I was hooked. Once you know what to look for, it's hilarious. Once you're keyed into the contextual life of women, you have to feel for the plight of the Bennet sisters, and laugh at the crudity of their mother and Mr. Collins. So yes: I'm a guy and I love Jane Austen. You got a problem with that? Huh? Huh? Do you? Huh??? Well if you do, I'll be over here nursing my dorkiness just waiting for a fight for the honor of my beloved Jane.

THIS BOOK IS MY JAM. JANE AUSTEN IS MY JAM. I LOVE EVERYTHING ABOUT HER AND THIS BOOK. READ THIS BOOK. THAT IS ALL.

I finally did it! ! ! ! And I loved it! ! ! !

I was forced to read this by my future wife. I was not, however, forced to give it 5 stars.

Austen was a brilliant writer. This story is timeless. Simply beautiful.

Well-loathed books I've re-read. Rating: 4 very annoyed, crow-feathered stars out of fiveThe Book Report: No. Seriously. If your first language isn't English, or if you're like nine years old, you might not know the story. Note use of conditional. My Review: All right. All right, dammit! I re-read the bloody thing. I gave it two stars before. I was wrong-headed and obtuse and testosterone poisoned. I refuse to give it five stars, though. Look, I've admitted I was wrong about how beautiful the writing is, and how amusing the story is. Don't push. Stephen Sullivan, who rated this with six stars of five, is now on a summer travel break from Goodreads, so I can publish this admission: He was right. It is a wonderful book. I had to grow into it, much as I had to grow into my love for Mrs. Dalloway. But now that I'm here, I am a full-on fan. Deft is a word that seems to have been created for Austen. She writes deftly, she creates scenes deftly. She isn't, despite being prolix to a fault, at all heavy-handed or nineteenth-century-ish in her long, long, long descriptions. She is the anti-Dickens: Nothing slapdash or gimcrack or brummagem about her prose, oh nay nay nay. Words are deployed, not flung or splodged or simply wasted. The long, long, long sentences and paragraphs aren't meant to be speed-read, which is what most of us do now. They are meant to be savored, to be treated like Louis XIII cognac served in a cut-crystal snifter after a simple sole meunière served with haricots verts and a perfect ripe peach for dessert. The romantic elements seem, at first blush, a wee tidge trite. And they are. Now. Why are they? Because, when Miss Jane first used them in Pride and Prejudice, they worked brilliantly and they continue so to do unto this good day. Why? Because these are real feelings expressed in a real, genuine, heartfelt way, as constrained by the customs of the country and times. And isn't that, in the end, what makes reading books so delicious? I, a fat mean old man with no redeeming graces, a true ignorant lower-class lout of the twenty-first century, am in full contact with the mind, the heart, the emotional core of a lady of slender means born during the reign of George III. You tell me what, on the surface of this earth, is more astonishing, more astounding, more miraculous than that. Jane Austen and I Had A Moment. She's Had A Moment with literally millions of English-speakers for over 200 years. She's had moments with non-English speakers for more than a century. Elizabeth Bennet and Fitzwilliam Darcy are cultural furniture for a large percentage of the seven billion people on the planet. (Large here is a relative term. Less than one? Still amazing for a book 200 years old. )Reading is traveling in time, in space, but most importantly inside. Inside yourself, inside the characters' emotions, inside the author's head and heart. It is a voyage of discovery, whether you're reading some bizarro mess, Dan Brown's mess, religious tracts, Twilight, whatever. You-the-reader are going somewhere in a more intimate contact than you-the-reader have with any other being on the planet. Movies, TV, sex, none of them take you as deep into the essence of feeling and emotion as reading does. And no, snobs, it does NOT matter if it's well written, it matters that the book speaks to the reader. (Sometimes, of course, what one learns is how very shallow and vapid some people are. . . I'm lookin' at you, Ms. Fifty Shades. )So I thank that rotten, stinkin' Stephen-the-absent Sullivan, safe in the knowledge he won't see me admitting this, for reminding me to live up to my own goal of remaining open to change. I heard him yodeling his rapture, and I revisited the book, and I learned something valuable: Only admit you're wrong when the person you don't want to embarrass yourself in front of isn't around to see.

Mr. Darcy. . . *swoons*First, we need to clear something up. Colin Firth is the only Mr. Darcy. That other Mr. Darcy was horrible! No, no, no, no, nooooo! Make it stop. Make. It. Stop. So, quite obviously, the BBC miniseries (in all its 327 minute glory) is the only version that is acceptable. The other movie was such a travesty to this book, that I wept big, fat, angry tears. . . like the spoiled brat that I am. Or maybe I'm exaggerating slightly. What were they thinking?! You don't mess with perfection! What did you think, Elizabeth?Exactly. I'm kidding. Sort of. Anyway, instead of reading it this time around, I listened to an audiobook version. Apparently, which audio version you listen to makes a difference. My real-life BFF said her version had an American doing British accents and she found it terribly annoying. I, however, had a version with an actual lady from the land of tea 'n crumpets, and she did a fine job. Well, she did have this lounge singerish voice, so instead of sounding like a fresh-faced 20 year old, Elizabeth sounded like she had been smoking 3 packs a day for about 40 years. Eh, I was ok with it. I kept imagining Lizzie with a cigarette dangling from her lips like a truck stop hooker, and it gave the story a fresh perspective. I've read this so many times over the years that I've lost count, but I still wish I could go back and read it for the first time all over again. I hated that stupid, arrogant, arse-faced Mr. Darcy when he first showed up at the ball. Ugh. What a prick! So, just like Lizzie, I remember being shocked at his proposal. And just like Lizzie, I was horrified by the way he dissed her family while he did it! And how could he think she would ever agree to marry him after the way he convinced Bingley that Jane didn't love him?! And the way he treated poor Wickham! Just who did this guy think he was! But then. . . The Letter! Oh, my! Well, that certainly put a different spin on things didn't it?! Elizabeth & I were so ashamed that we had judged him so harshly. *hangs head*And the way he acted toward us when we met near the lake! So kind. . . such a gentleman! Ok, I've probably read that particular scene (at Pemberley) a million times. Sometimes, I would just pick up and start the book from there. Total comfort food. It's just. . . ahhhhhhhhhhh. Of course, Lydia has to go and ruin everything! How could she be such a stupid, selfish, uncaring twat! ? Grrrrrrr! *strangle, strangle, strangle*How will Darcy and I. . . I mean, Darcy and Elizabeth. . . manage to get their Happily Ever After?Feelings! Oh, the feelings! So. Yes, I'm unashamed to admit that I am that cliché of a woman who loves Pride and Prejudice. Unashamed! I just. . . {insert fangirl screaming and crying}*Throws panties at Mr. Darcy*

Critics who consider Austen's works trivial because of their rigid, upper-class setting, wealthy characters, domestic, mannered plots and happy endings are almost totally disconnected from reality, as far as I can tell. What can they possibly expect an upper-middle class English woman to write about in 1813 but what she knows or can imagine? Sci-fi? A history of the American Revolution? A real-life exposé of underage exploitation in the garment district of London? Come on. What other setting can she be expected to tackle with authority? Austen's value lies in her portraiture: her characters are believably human in their concerns, vanities, failings and quirks. The plots serve largely to showcase their interaction and thus, her observations of human nature, which are pointed, accurate, and hysterical. Here, in her best work (my opinion), her technical skill as a writer also shows in Pride and Prejudice's tight plotting and economical casting; there are no superfluous characters or wasted chapters here. My college lit professor used to go on and on about this novel as a revolution of literary form in that dialogue drives the plot as much as exposition; I'll buy that but it doesn't thrill me for its own sake as much as it did her. It does mean, though, that Pride and Prejudice is a relatively smooth and lively read, that we learn about events and characters as much from what they say to each other as from what Austen narrates to us. The banter between Darcy and Elizabeth isn't empty flirting, it's a progression, a chart of their ongoing understanding/misunderstanding and a way to take stock of plot developments as well as an enjoyable display of wit. Austen's heroines are famously caught between love and money are famously criticized for always getting both in the end. I've got no problem with this wish fulfillment. Keep in mind that being married is basically the only possible 'job' available to a woman of her position--marrying a rich dude is the only viable escape from the life of poor-relation dependency Austen herself lived, there's nothing reactionary or anti-feminist about it. The other option--becoming a governess--is barely respectable, putting a woman into an ambiguous class limbo of social invisibility that translates directly into a loss of safety and self-governance. Expecting Elizabeth to, what, become a doctor? is silly and anachronistic, and perhaps if that's your preference you'd be better off reading Clan of the Cave Bear, with Ayla and her bearskin bra, or what have you. Pride and Prejudice is simply a joy to read, a dance of manners and affection between the leads and a parade of human silliness in the supporting cast. edited to add: some thoughts specific to the Patricia Meyer Spacks annotated edition I received as a gift for Christmas 2010:It’s quite remarkably handsome, and sturdy, and useful for whacking spiders if you are that sort of person. Generously illustrated with color and black-and-white sketches, engravings, and reproductions of earlier editions, household objects, relevant artwork, contemporary cartoons, diagrams and fashion plates. My attention wandered during the editor’s introduction in what turned out to be a horribly familiar way. While I appreciated Spacks’s discussion of historical background, her warnings about the subtlety of language and characterization, and the dangers of identifying too much with our favorite characters because Austen stacks the deck for that purpose, etc etc, it was a sort of technical appreciation--dry, and a little bit soulless. I was, perhaps, impatient. At some point as I yanked my eyes back to the pages I kept trying to read, I realized: Spacks is a Professor Emerita at the University of Virginia--my former stomping grounds (wahoo-wa! ) (. . . sorry, that happens)--it’s more than possible she was MY professor back in 19. I don’t remember her name or face, but certainly her style, the steel trap of her mind, and the mildly pushy feeling of her obsession with language all felt very very familiar. So, grain of salt: I may have some kind of baggage here. That said, this is a must-own for the serious P&P fan. As with any annotated edition, I wouldn’t recommend it for a first or even third reading of the book--these notes take up half-to-full pages, sometimes continuing to the next, and only if you’re already familiar with the text of the book itself can you spare attention to wander off down these other roads. Keep another straight copy of P&P around for when you just want to read the thing. Some footnotes are simple definitions, or style notes: some are mini-essays that include their own cited references. Spacks includes centuries of Austen scholarship in her notes, not just contemporaries, so points of view vary widely. There’s quite a smorgasbord of textual commentary to pick through, and you’re sure to find little tidbits that strike you as especially resonant or horrendously wrong and weird. Two tidbits I liked: first, a primary source. One note, in discussing the complicated British class system of the day, refers to a table constructed by one Patrick Colquhoun in his A Treatise on the Wealth, Power and Resources of the British Empire, in Every Quarter of the World (2nd ed. , London, 1815, pp 106-107)--a table which lays out exactly where, for instance, Darcy stands in relation to the Bennett family. He’s in the “second class,” they’re in the fourth. Clearly people put a lot of time and effort into codifying and arguing about societal structure, status and behavior, and I think that would be a fascinating thing to read. Another note I lingered over involves Mr. Collins, a character we love to hate. Here's the upside of an annotated edition: I’d never bothered to give Mr Collins much of my attention, since he’s icky--but Spacks points out the oddity of a snippet that I'd always ignored before. In bidding Elizabeth farewell from Hunsford, Mr Collins apologizes profusely for the humbleness of his style of living, as if he considered her socially above him--and this is a complete 180 from his incredibly condescending proposal of marriage earlier in the book, where he deigns to presume he’s taking a burden from her parents by opting to support her. Also, Spacks has a lot to say about Elizabeth's inconsistency and lack of generosity towards Charlotte Lucas--traits I'd noticed in past readings without following through to some of their logical conclusions and their connections with Elizabeth's later behavior. Definitely worth the purchase price! Add it to your collection, but don't make it your only copy, since it's hard to tuck under your pillow.

Society, with all its restrictive constructs, is one nasty piece of work. It comes with so many silly rules, so many silly expectations. Those of social station and wealth must be seen to marry someone of the same “worth” regardless of the feelings involved; they must be seen to marry someone on their level of class structure. But what of love? What of passion? Should it be quenched because of these all-encompassing silly constructs? Austen doesn’t think so. Enter Darcy, a man who is royally pissed off; he has fallen in love with someone considered far beneath him, to declare his love for her is to step outside the realms of his supposed pedigree: it is a form of social death. So he is a man torn in two. At the route of things, he is a product of his society; consequently, he is affected by its values. Although he hates it all the same; thus, the long sullen silences, the seemingly moody and arrogant exchanges with Elizabeth. But it’s all the expression of a man struggling to deal with the raging tempest of emotions that have taken hold of his mind: his being. “In vain have I struggled. It will not do. My feelings will not be repressed. You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire and love you. ” Indeed, Austen slowly reveals the dangers of false perception as she gradually peels away the mask of this stoic pillar of aristocracy, and underneath blossoms a misunderstood and sensitive soul. So the romance plot is born. Elizabeth eventually loses her prejudice and sees through Darcy’s false pride. Darcy loses his integrated construct of prejudice and ignores the pride of his relatives. As ever with Austen, the title of the work is suggestive of the main motifs; she’s never subtle as its all ways clear which way her razor sharp sarcasm is pointed. So love conquers all. Austen was a strong advocate of social mobility, and often it’s based upon love in her works. But she only believes in real love. She’s not interested in fleeting moments of heat and sexual lust; she portrays true and lasting romantic attachments, relationships that are strong and real. For her, such things transcend class boundaries, wealth and intelligence. Love is love. It doesn’t matter who it is with as long as it is real; hence, Austen becomes a critique of society and its customs that prevent these relationships from being realised. She knows how stupid it is, and she loves to poke fun of her caricatures of the old stilted class of her era: the ones that resist her ideas. Is this the best Austen? I did really enjoy this book, and I have given it five stars, but it’s not as good as her other works. For me it lacks the moral growth of Northanger Abbey and Emma. It lacks the conciseness of Persuasion. The emphasis on the injustice of romance has made it popular, though I do strongly believe that the love in Persuasion is stronger than it is here. That endures rejection, separation, war and decades; yet, it still lingers. I love Austen, and I have loved each one of her books I’ve read so far in different ways. I hope to continue to do so. This is the fourth Austen I’ve given five stars, I can easily celebrate her as one of my favourite writers. __________________________________You can connect with me on social media via My Linktree. __________________________________

can you believe elizabeth and darcy invented the 'enemies to lovers' trope and have been the most iconic power couple to exist ever since

it is official: now everyone on the planet has read this book. i was the last holdout, and being the last person (excluding those who are just being born. . . . . . now) i am sorry i didn't like it more. i knew going into it that i was not a jane austen girl; i had read two others and thought them bloodless and mercantile. but everyone said to me, "well, you haven't read pride and prejudice is why you don't like her. " which i thought might be valid. but it's not. because i still don't care. this is not the greatest love story of all time. it's more like the most amiable alliance of compatible feelings that ends up in a mutually agreeable union and merging of fortunes and temperaments. i mean, really. this book needs heathcliff to come barreling in on a stallion all wet from the moors to ravish all five of these daughters and show them what a real man is all about. now there's a love story. . . come to my blog!

I don't think I will ever be able to properly explain my obsession with this book. Everytime I read Pride and Prejudice (though it’s been many years since I’ve done a reread) I find something else to love about it. Jane Austen renders a beautiful display of English country life in the early 1800s and the complexity of ordinary people — all their vanities, their flaws and their quirks. The writing is lush and descriptive with a slow melting pace filled with subtle humour, sarcasm and witty banter. “But people themselves alter so much, that there is something new to be observed in them for ever. ”The author created a fantastic and varied cast of characters. The absurdities of the secondary characters are what kept the plot light and fun. Elizabeth’s whole family (excluding Jane) were a trainwreck of silly individuals. But none are like Mr Collins. This man never fails to astound me with his silliness. The things he said were half ridiculously funny and the other half of the time I just wanted to smack him. Characters like Miss Bingley, Mr Wickham and Lady Catherine were also infuriating at times. Something I always find extremely entertaining in these types of classics is the underhanded savagery delivered through a facade of polite smiles and impeccable manners. It’s admirable, really 😂 . But let’s talk about our otp. We have Elizabeth Bennet who does not care about societal expectations. She will not marry for anything less than love and mutual respect. And would rather marry no one than marry someone she couldn’t love. For the time that this book was published, this was revolutionary as women had little power and choice. Lizzy is strong minded and makes hasty judgments but I adore her loyalty and admire her fierce protectiveness of those she cares about. She soon learns to not judge too quickly after a few too many misunderstandings. “There is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at the will of others. My courage always rises at every attempt to intimidate me. ”And then we have Darcy who is our socially awkward wreck who doesn’t know how to talk to people and hides his uncomfortability behind a mask of arrogance. What I loved most about his arc is that he listens, reflects on his behavior and strives to be better. He grows into someone worthy of Lizzy’s respect without the expectation of her returning his feelings. Can y’all hear me swooning over here?“Now be sincere; did you admire me for my impertinence?”“For the liveliness of your mind, I did. ”The romance isn’t a wild passion, but a slow build between two people who are wrong in their first impressions of one another, then grow to admire the other. It’s soft, it’s gentle and it’s e v e r y t h i n g. If you’re looking to get into reading Austen, or even classics in general, I really think Pride and Prejudice is the place to start. It’s a smooth read and the story is so well known it will be easy to follow. [👈 This is me trying to be subtle when actually I want to shout at everyone to read this book 😁___fares has been sending me his reread updates and I just couldn't resist. So guess who's reading for the fifth time?! !

18 chapters in. . . I want that to sink in for a moment. . . ok. 18 chapters in and NOTHING has happened. I am enjoying her writing style very much, but I also enjoy the back of an occasional cereal box so that may not mean much. We will see. I am sitting here eating a tootsie roll, a Halloween left over, and I can't help notice the similarities between it and the novel Pride and Prejudice. First off, like P and P, the tootsie roll wasn't one of those dinky ones that you can almost swallow in a single bite so you know that I've been at this for a while and now that I finally got it down, I have to wonder why I put it into mouth to begin with. Secondly, tootsie rolls are a throwback to another age, there are far better candies out there and the 36 wrappers littering the floor will attest to this. You have to really like tootsie rolls to appreciate them. I don't. Pride and Prejudice is the dullest most wonderfully written book that I have ever read. I read it simply to get a feel for the author's fantastic ability at arranging words, and really I mean it when I say, oh what wonderful blather. I give the book one star. After 62 chapters, there is nothing that happens. There is barely a story to the story, at least not one that could be remotely interesting. . . even to people who like romance. In the age of bodices, there is nary a one that is ripped open, let alone one that is undone with the gentle exploring fingers of a lover. And then there is the hubbub over the book. . . Satirical? A witty comedy of manners? Sure, I smiled a few times at the only funny character in the book, Mr. Bennett, but overall, I read, studied the sentence structure, noticed the wall paper and waited patiently as the paint dried. Even the dramatic ending where Lizzy gets the guy, is a letdown and dull. Just to let you know, I was joking about it being in any way dramatic. Which brings me to the characters. Other than Lizzy, they are all stereotypical and lack even the most remote concept of depth. Jane is pretty and sweet from the first page to the last. The mom is overbearing, the dad aloof. Other than Darcy, no one grows or changes in a book that spans a few years and endless pages. Normally, I use one star for books that I just can't finish and if I wasn't an aspiring author, I wouldn't have bothered to get through half the book, but since I did. . . and when I compare it to yawner like A Tale of Two Cities, I had to bump this one up a notch. PS, Don't read Moby Dick either, if you know what's good for you.

Always a joy. Such a beloved favourite of mine.

Pride and Prejudice Jane Austen's most famous novel, the story of a man with five unmarried but attractive daughters, from the oldest to youngest Jane, Elizabeth, Mary, Catherine and Lydia 15, in Regency England, during the unending Napoleonic Wars. When Mr. Bennet is no longer breathing, his beautiful house will be inherited by a distant cousin, in both miles and blood Mr. Collins, they have never seen (women during that era, loss their property to the nearest male relative in such circumstances) , his concerned family becomes homeless. The parents, the witty sarcastic Mr. Bennet is rather aloof they believe, and the loving Mrs. Bennet silly and ignorant , but it's incumbent that the girls find good, rich men to marry before that unhappy occurrence happens . Mrs. Bennet is always looking for eligible prospects since so many are in the military and the militia is nearby, that's where Mrs. Bennet looks mainly, officers only of course. The two youngest sisters teenagers, already make daily, secret visits to the regimental headquarters but Jane is 22 and Elizabeth 20! Time is quickly running out, when a gentleman Mr. Charles Bingley rents the Netherfield house and brings his wealthy friend Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy, both bachelors with money ( this is 1813 we have to be quite formal), things are looking up in the village for the Bennet family. At the assembly Bingley dances twice with Jane, the prettiest daughter and Darcy's perceived pride towards the lowly provincials, makes him very disliked by Elizabeth (still sparks fly ) the smartest of the sisters, that's where the book title comes from (now Mr. George Wickham what a charming splendid man, everyone thinks). When these two unattached gentlemen leave for London town all hope sinks, will they ever comeback? After Mr. Collins the unknown cousin visits the home of the Bennet's, an uneasy feeling hangs heavy over the whole family. Mr. William Collins the pompous irritating clergyman, surprisingly proposes to Miss Elizabeth, her mother approves but will the daughter ? The advantages are obvious but the independent woman has a strong streak of following her dreams and what about Mr. Darcy? Is she changing her opinion about that arrogant man, a woman's prerogative. . . . Celebrating this year, the 200th anniversary of the all time classic. A wonderful, amusing, charmingly warm story about never giving in to expediency but follow your dreams no matter how remote the possibility of success, sometimes you wake up, and it becomes reality.

Some years back in one of my APAs, someone castigated Jane Austen's books like this: "All those daft twits rabbiting on about clothes and boyfriends and manners. "Since then, I’ve encountered other variations on the theme that a modern woman ought not to be reading such trash because it sets feminism back two centuries. Well, much as I laughed over the first caveat, that isn't Austen. It sounds more like the silver fork romances inspired by Georgette Heyer. Austen's characters don't talk about clothes at all, outside of air-headed Mrs Allen of Northanger Abbey, who doesn't think of anything else. Austen sticks her satiric quill into young ladies who think and talk about nothing but beaux, such as poor, luckless Anne Steele in Sense and Sensibility. Manners are emphasized but not manners without matter; Austen saves her spikiest irony for hypocrites. I think it's important to remember that whereas Heyer was writing historical romances in the silver fork tradition, Austen was writing novels about contemporary life, especially the problems facing young women in her own walk of life, the country gentry. She criticized herself in a much-quoted letter to her sister Cassandra, saying in effect, 'the problem with Pride and Prejudice is it's too light and bright and sparkling. ' Many have misinterpreted this remark. It seems to me, on close reading of her elsewhere, that she meant the novel to be taken more seriously than it was. What is it about, really? It's about the wrong reasons for marrying, and how those can affect a woman for the rest of her life. Of course a hard-line feminist can point out that novels about marriage are hideously retro for today's woman, who has many choices before her. During Austen's time, marriage was the only choice a woman had, unless she was rich enough to shrug off the expectations of her society, or unless she was willing to live on as a pensioner to some family member or other, which more often than not meant being used as an unpaid maid. Of course there was teaching, but the salaries for women were so miserable one may as well have been a servant. The hours and demands were pretty much equal. If one looks past the subject of marriage, the novel's focus is about relationships: between men and women; between sisters; between friends; between family members and between families. As for marriage, Austen sends up relationships that were formed with security as the goal, relationships that were sparked by physical attraction and not much else, relationships made with an eye to rank, money, social status, or competition. And, with abundant wit and style (or as she’d say, with éclat), she offers some truths about the differences between love and lust, and what relationships based on either mean to a marriage months—or decades—after the wedding. The fact that Austen doesn't use modern terminology doesn't make it any less real than a contemporary novel that has a supposedly liberated woman romping desperately from bed to bed for forty pages while in search of the perfect relationship. The message is the same, that women who mistake falling in lust for falling in love are usually doomed to a very unhappy existence. And in Austen's time, you couldn't divorce, you were stuck for life. I've had dedicated feminist friends give me appalled reactions when I admit to liking Austen. I don't consider reading Austen a guilty pleasure, as I do reading Wodehouse. I consider Jane Austen a forerunner of feminism. She doesn't stand out and preach as Mary Wollstonecroft did. Her influence was nevertheless profound. Again and again in those novels she portrays women thinking for themselves, choosing for themselves—even if their choices are within the conventions of the time. What the women think matters. In Austen’s day (and too often, now) female characters were there as prizes for the men to possess, or to strive for, or as catalysts for male action. Jane Austen gave her female characters as much agency as a woman could have in those days, and the narrative is mostly seen through their eyes. Charlotte Lucas is a remarkable example for the time; she is not the least romantic, but she sees what she wants, and she gets it. And doesn't pay for getting what she wants by dying of consumption as too often happened to forthright females in novels of the period. The famed relationship between Elizabeth Bennet and Mr. Darcy makes it very clear that they were first attracted by one another's intellect—those two were clearly brain-snogging before they ever got to the fine sheets of Pemberley. It is also clear that the man—his higher social and economic status notwithstanding—had to earn the woman's respect, and rethink some of his assumptions, before she could see in him a possible partner. There is no dominant male making the decisions: those two are equal right down to the last page, and Austen makes it clear that it will continue to be so after the marriage. Each time I reread the novel, I notice something new, but in the meantime, will I continue to recommend it to young women just venturing into literature? You bet.

Eh, just okay. Basically a character study of 19th century England, society, courtship, etc. Nothing all that mind blowing or enthralling happens. In fact, not much really happens at all. I know some out there love this one, but it wasn't really for me. To tell you the truth, I read this because I have Pride & Prejudice & Zombies sitting on my shelf ready to go, but I figured it would be best if I familiarized myself with the source material first.

Well, I finally finished this classic novel, by Jane Austen, set in the 18th century, and I have to say it was worth all the time I took to read it. I absolutely loved the main characters, the humor, and most of all the romance. I watched the movie and loved it also, but the book is much more detailed and descriptive. Definitely a favorite! I highly recommend it to everyone. You won't regret reading this one. 🐦

A quintessential novel of manners. Fine moral intelligence and subtle psychological insight expressed in a straightforward, epigrammatic style. I read it for the first time forty years ago, and I am still half in love with Eliza Bennet.

Another flashback Saturday, I chose to reread one of the best classics and my favorite Jane Austen novel. ( and finally this is also last day of mercury retrograde) This year I may have read at least five different retelling versions of the same book and I didn’t enjoy any of them so I decided to go back and refresh my memories( of course I can rewatch the adapted series and sigh when I see Colin Firth’s charming face on the screen which I did it at least 7 times) but now I’m listening the audiobook and I have to admit I always admired Rosamund Pike’s acting skills and her narration performance is incredible. I highly recommend to listen this remarkable classic from her lyrical voice. So here are my favorite quotes I want to share:“There are few people whom I really love, and still fewer of whom I think well. The more I see of the world, the more am I dissatisfied with it; and every day confirms my belief of the inconsistency of all human characters, and of the little dependence that can be placed on the appearance of merit or sense. ”“A lady's imagination is very rapid; it jumps from admiration to love, from love to matrimony in a moment. ”“I must learn to be content with being happier than I deserve”And of course this one: “You must allow me to tell you how ardently! ”Oh Fitzwilliam Darcy! That’s why you keep stealing so many women’s hearts for centuries!

If you are not Elizabeth Bennet or Fitzwilliam Darcy I am not gonna marry you. Period!

This book is every sort of beautiful! Happy Reading! Mel 🖤🐶🐺🐾MY BLOG

"I cannot fix on the hour, or the spot, or the look, or the words, which laid the foundation. It is too long ago. I was in the middle before I knew that it had begun. " This was Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy's reply when Ms. Elizabeth Bennet asked him when he fell in love with her. Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen had put my left out dictionary into good use. I have to admit, I was very slow in the first pages, however, nearing the end, I was like a driver going at 100mph, eager to reach the finish line. At the first pages, I have to admit I was frustrated, for Jane Austen had called her characters Miss Bennet, and I must duly mention that there are five Miss Bennets. And the use of various nicknames, confused me more. I thought Elizabeth and Eliza and Lizzy are different persons. So, I put a book guide into good use as well. I must also mention my despise of Mrs. Bennet. I hated her more than anyone in this novel. She has no talent in being a mother whatsoever and have no notions of leading her daughters in the right path. The only thing that matters to her is the marrying of her five daughters. After the misfortune of Lydia running away with Wickham, she was frivolous as to forget the elopement as soon as news of marriage were ensued. She considered the hunting for a wedding gown, the most of her problems. I've never seen a woman as fickle-minded as her and no one as blinded to riches than her. Nor do I have a desire to meet one. Lydia Bennet, is another matter. She is selfish and insensitive as anyone can get. I have to mention this, to unload the hatred in my chest. How Jane and Elizabeth turned out to be well bred is a wonder, considering the type of mother they are born with. But enough of what I hate of the book, because it will soon be forgotten, and all but the love of Mr Darcy for Elizabeth would remain. This is a genuine love story. I've fallen in love with Mr Darcy. He wanted to change his ways for his beloved Elizabeth. He helped her in so many ways and he needed no credit for it. For him, it was enough that he knew he helped her. He also hid his love for her for so long, its endearing. No part of the book was useless. All were vital for the fruition of Mr Darcy and Ms Bennett's love story. As you go deeper in the book, all pieces come together, like a puzzle, slowly making meaning. Indeed, Ms. Elizabeth Bennet is lucky, to have loved and to be loved in return. Despite the troubles their love had to endure, it was victor in the end. ♥

** spoiler alert ** So the other day Elizabeth and I are in the book store and she saw this book, and said she really wanted me to read it. In horror at the thought of reading what I thought was a 'chick book', i immediately countered that she would then have to read one of my favorites: Dune. She agreed! So I read it, and I have to admit, it was good - damn good. Even though there was a serious lack of any gratuitous violence, I tore through it in several days. Austen is an amazing writer, and has a particular talent for explaining her characters deep motivations (or prejudices) in a few defining sentences. I think my favorite part of it is the unwinding of Elizabeths' prejudices against Mr Darcy. It is done so slowly and artfully and believably that the reader is completely pulled into the story. It is a definite period piece - here are a few funny observations:- Nobody in the book had a job - they all earned income from their estates- Since nobody had jobs they spent all day gossiping- People were judged not by what they did for a living but what family they were from and how they behaved in society. Completely different from today! - Dating was much tougher back then. You needed at least 10 dates to get anywhere, and you probably had to marry in order to go all the way. Jokes aside, this is a classic, and I highly recommend it for any guy or girl.

I am so genuinely surprised at the positive experience I had reading this book! I had so much fun reading it and can now understand why people love it so much :3 Let's be real this deserves 5 stars <3Around the Year in 52 Books Challenge Notes:- 9. A book mentioned in another book

If somebody had told me that I'd love a romance before I read this book, I would have laughed derisively. In my late teens, romance was just not my cup of tea: it was meant for (yechch! ) - girls. I was happily reading about those brave and hardy men who blew up German castles (during World War II) and evil Communist strongholds (after the war). The only women in those books were beautiful spies or dangerous adventuresses. A few years later, my aunt pointed me to this book, after I had rather enjoyed an adaptation of it on Doordarshan (the Indian TV channel). I opened the book, read the first couple of sentences, and was hooked. It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife. However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on his first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds of the surrounding families, that he is considered the rightful property of some one or other of their daughters. By God! You can't be more true to life than this. . . [personal interlude] Scene: Myself at a marriage reception, strutting about rather proudly having recently landed a job. Mother calls: "Nandu! Come here for a moment. "I go rather reluctantly, because I know what is about to transpire. It is like I dreaded: there is another female with mother. My mother presents me to her proudly. The lady looks me over with an appraising eye, and my knees are already weak. She says in a wondering tone: "My! How tall your son has grown! " (I'm all of five-feet-six-and-a-half inches. ) "When I last saw you (this to me) you were only so tall. . . "(and she holds her hand the appropriate height from the floor. This is not surprising, because when she last saw me, I was only five years old. )She turns to my mother, and says the dreaded words: "He's employed now. Isn't it time he settled down?"Uh. . . oh. I sidle away, because I know what's coming next: she knows of a "nice girl" who would be the perfect match for me. . . [end of interlude]Oh, Mr. Bingley and Darcy, I sympathise with you from the bottom of my heart! ***Elizabeth Bennet was the first girl I hopelessly fell in love with. Unfortunately for me, she existed only on the pages of a book, so my love was doomed from the start. *** ". . . Happiness in marriage is entirely a matter of chance. If the dispositions of the parties are ever so well known to each other or ever so similar beforehand, it does not advance their felicity in the least. They always continue to grow sufficiently unlike afterwards to have their share of vexation; and it is better to know as little as possible of the defects of the person with whom you are to pass your life. " - Charlotte Lucas. Being married to the same wonderful woman for more than twenty-three years, whom I did not know at all before our marriage was arranged, I can vouch for the veracity of the above statement. ***Wonderful book. Read it!

Pulls me in every time, regardless of how wordy it is. I need to read more Austen now, and obvs watch every adaptation of every of her novels. ______Finished my post-election therapeutic P&P binge. I re-watched this:and this:and even this:and then listened to this:And yet, I am still not sufficiently comforted. What to do?

Just a few words to express how I loved Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice. So much has already been said, that I feel almost redundant. 'Pride and Prejudice' for me is above all about women’s choices in marriage, or the possibility of love versus choosing for money or social position. During Austen's time, marriage was the only option a woman had, except if she was rich enough to disregard the expectations of society; except if she was willing to live as a poor relation, which usually meant being used as an unpaid servant. Of course, there was always the option of becoming a governess, but that represented not only miserly wages, even worst it implied becoming barely respectable and existence in an ambiguous class oblivion of social invisibility and no autonomy. What could be worst? Thus, let’s not criticize Austen’s contemporaries who saw marriage as their only choice, let’s even try to understand Mrs. Benet predicament: ”If I can but see one of my daughters happily settled at Netherfield,” said Mrs. Bennet to her husband, “and all the others equally well married, I shall have nothing to wish for. ” But we have to remember that woman’s necessity was not one-sided: It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife. But, alas, that has probably been said before. What else can I mention here? That Jane Austen was ahead of her time, and her heroine, the witty and charming Elizabeth Bennet, makes us fall in love with her by her accurate view of the world: There are few people whom I really love, and still fewer of whom I think well. The more I see of the world, the more am I dissatisfied with it; and every day confirms my belief of the inconsistency of all human characters, and of the little dependence that can be placed on the appearance of merit or sense. And let’s not forget Mr. Darcy, for I am a romantic at heart, and he conquered me with his truthful statement, and even more crucial for me, ended up changing for Elizabeth: In vain have I struggled. It will not do. My feelings will not be repressed. You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire and love you. What I most liked about Elizabeth and Darcy’s relationship is that it is not a simple romantic tale, but I loved how they overcome his pride and her prejudice and grow up gradually from a mutual antipathy to an understanding. And that does not happen overnight but over a period of over a year. All this, and much more if I wished to be even more redundant is what makes this novel so popular and enduring. It was refreshing to have a story that despite questioning prevailing values makes us smile. Highly recommended. ____

The perfection of this novel is amazing and until today it is difficult to impossible to name another book that has the same character development, hidden social critique and amazing characters in a classical setting dealing with the grievances of an epoch. So less action and so much suspense just created by the inner view of the main protagonists that it is a pleasure to read and reread, I just can´t get behind how she could write like a goddess and what makes each word, setting and plot twist so smooth and easy-going, while diving so deep under the skin of this bizarre, ancient society. What I love about classics is the background, the society, norms and rules and how the authors integrated, criticized and commented on the big topics of their time and avoided censorship. Like Twain, London and a handful of other writers Austen has conserved the spirit of those days for eternity, made it a funny, intense and unique novel. It shows how complex women's roles evolved during the history and how the immense stupidity of male-made humanities restricted much freedom and emancipation and integrated hilarious, epic monuments of facepalmgasms instead. Just irony and satire in it´s highest form can be used as a mirror to reflect the impressions of a not so far away past and be able to laugh instead of sigh about it. At a time when great writing could just be powered by talent, intelligence and passion (because there was no creative writing course around the next corner), protected by avoiding conservative worldview and boredom, Austen wrote vivid, cliffhangery and in perfect length with an inherent instinct for the rules of how to make true art. Not like many others, who praised their stupid beliefs in their racist, intolerant novels or became pseudointellectual and impossible to understand for mentally healthy readers without nihilistic tendencies to push their ego (here, mindlessly hyped author, take that Nobel prize for that. Again), she wrote literature at it´s best. I guess that many critics don´t have the time or interest to invest more effort than just reading it without a bit of researching history and the authors' biography to get the full pleasure of all the hidden easter eggs. Without that, it may really seem much more superficial and less well constructed than with the extra knowledge that enables one to enjoy it in full mode. Just as a good wine (I hate wine, it´s just about the allegory) classics need time, have to breath, have to be consumed mindfully and consciously in certain doses and a bit of decadent study about where the grapes were grown, what meal fits to it, etc. is never a bad idea. Otherwise, they would be indistinguishable from million of cheap, mass-produced, blockbuster, media-hyped, disposable clone armies of today's literature. Tropes show how literature is conceptualized and created and which mixture of elements makes works and genres unique: https://tvtropes. org/pmwiki/pmwiki. ph. . . https://tvtropes. org/pmwiki/pmwiki. ph. . . A wiki walk can be as refreshing to the mind as a walk through nature in this completely overrated real life outside books: https://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/Jane_Au. . . https://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/Pride_a. . .

Second time around and still a timeless classic!

Revived review to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the death of Jane Austen. Go Jane - like a cute little tortoise you have outlasted all of those bustling hares. ****It is a truth which I would like to see universally acknowledged, that no one voluntarily reads any 19th century novels unless they are by Jane Austen. I fear that modern readers think all these Radcliffes, Disraelis, Eliots, Gissings and so forth tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt them, or even, that they are most disagreeable, horrid books, not at all worth reading. They look at them without admiration at the library. They tell me they are all too long, but for my own part, if a book is well written, I always find it too short. But it is particularly incumbent on those who never change their opinion, to be secure of judging properly at first, lest it be considered prejudice. Such perseverance in wilful self-deception! In vain I have struggled to tell them about Thackeray, Dickens and Bennett. It will not do. Somewhere they have formed the groundwork of disapprobation on which succeeding events have built so immovable a dislike; and I firmly believe that Moby Dick is the last book in the world that they could ever be prevailed on to read. The modern reader is so well disposed towards those who are in interesting situations, that a young person, who is either a vampire, or a zombie, is sure of being kindly spoken of. Well, well. One half of the world cannot understand the pleasures of the other. My idea of good company is the company of clever, well-informed dead people who have a great deal of conversation; that is what I call good company. Laugh as much as you choose, but you will not laugh me out of my opinion.

The most overated book in history of literature. The "plot" borders between meaningless and trivial. I was forced to read the book in 9th grade English class. This was perhaps the most tedious school assignment I've received to date. For several pages a lady remarks to a man about what wonderful handwriting he has. Not exactly gripping material. The entire book seemed to be about hormone-driven marriageable-age creatures trying to outwit each other in word and on the dance floor. The book itself is bad enough, but to complicate matters, women pledge allegiance not only to the book but also to the gazillion-hour movie.

Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice is one of the most widely read classical romances. It is also no exaggeration to say that Pride and Prejudice is the most popular work by Jane Austen. One is amazed when one thinks how a novel which was written centuries ago have enchanted generations of readers and continues to still enchant millions of readers. But those who have read it at least once will be able to account for why it is so. This novel though widely loved does not escape from the criticism of being overrated. This criticism is, to me, is found on a misconception. Pride and Prejudice is merely misunderstood as being a simple romance. The reason for this misconception is its resemblance to popular romantic fiction. But if one reads it with care and attention, one will not fail to understand that there is much more into this work than being a simple romance. Since love and marriage are dominant themes of the novel, it is perhaps natural to dismiss it as simple romantic fiction. But other equally important themes such as duty, honour, domestic felicity, and class difference elevate the novel from the simple romance pedestal. However what makes this novel extraordinary are the use of diverse characters and the detailed exposition of their virtues, vices, values, and principles. Jane Austen is well known for her power of human observation. This power is well exhibited through the characters she employs in her novels. And it also accounts for her characters being felt real and close to the reader's hearts. In Pride and Prejudice we meet an unusual heroine for the Regency period. Elizabeth Bennet is an uncommon individual. She is bold, outspoken, intelligent, and independent. Her character is quite a contrast to the passive and submissive heroines of popular romantic fiction of the Regency period. Elizabeth is far too modern and she appeals to modern readers. Her lively spirit enables readers to connect with her instantly. Darcy too is an uncommon hero. He is not bold, daring, and forward gallant type found in popular Regency romance; but rather he is steady, intelligent, strong-minded, and principled. I think the contrast of the main duo of the novel to the accepted notion of heroin and hero of the Regency period helped this beautiful novel to maintain its universal and timeless appeal. The rest of the characters are drawn from the silly, ridiculous, vain, coquettish, wicked, proud, and indifferent lot. These various traits of the characters add variety, colour, and comic relief to the novel. The title "Pride and Prejudice" is said to denote Darcy's pride and Elizabeth's prejudice. However, in this fourth read, I felt that both are proud and prejudiced. Elizabeth's prejudice does not awaken only from the general manner and behaviour of Darcy but also from her wounded pride. Darcy's pride prejudices him against the people below his class as unworthy of his attentions. It is fascinating to read these two governed by their pride and prejudices consciously and unconsciously fight their growing attraction. The writing is beautiful. Though not imbued with the Victorian rich language and verbosity, the light, witty, exuberant, and passionate writing arrest the reader's heart. And her style of writing is most extraordinary. Jane Austen tells her story not in so many words but through the description of thoughts and conduct of her characters. The theme of love is expounded on the thoughts and conduct of Jane, Elizabeth, Darcy, and Bingley; domestic felicity and the consequences of its absence on the conduct of the Bennet family; the class difference is on the thoughts and conduct of Darcy, Lady Catherine, and Elizabeth; duty and honour are mainly on the thoughts and conduct of Jane, Elizabeth, and Darcy. It is nothing short of sheer brilliance. I have written a pretty lengthy review here. My excuse is that I wanted to try my best to do justice to the one book which will always have a tender place in my heart; the one book which made me fall in love with classics as a child. I owe my love for classics to Jane Austen and Pride and Prejudice. And so I thank Jane Austen with a sincere warm heart.

Sublime - unlike many books I loved as a teenager, it gets better and better with age, as the nuance and satire jumps off the page.

Here is another awesome edition I’ve added to my collection 💕I also like to listen to my cd or mp3 when rereading the book, it gives me great comfort . . especially when I’m feeling particularly like shit …Ok, I’m going to try to show how beautiful this book is through a few collages. I just don’t have the time or stress level to add each little thing so I’ll show a few things. I’m hoping they take this as I’m trying to review each edition I own, although, I might just add to a few of them later with other editions if GR this up! This edition is absolutely gorgeous with the illustrations of flowers and birds throughout the book. They also have little things stuck in the pages for us to enjoy. I love this book and I hope to get all the editions I can. Lizzy and Darcy are everything 💕Mel 🖤🐶🐺🐾

“It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife. ” ~ Rating- 5 stars ~(Content/ Trigger Warnings ) -No Mention of these in the review-After over a month of trying to write a review, I have officially given up. I cannot review Pride and Prejudice the way I review the rest of the books I read. Part of it might be because this book is on such a high literally level compared to the rest of the books I usually read, and the other part may be because I always struggle with reviewing classics, but my point still stays the same: Pride and Prejudice is one of the best books I've had the pleasure of reading. Why? This book has everything you might want to read in a book. It has amazing characters, who are flawed and realistic, but still have a ton of development, it has incredible writing, which will keep you hooked, and it is set in 1700-1800 England. In short, Pride and Prejudice has everything that is worth the read. “I declare after all there is no enjoyment like reading! How much sooner one tires of any thing than of a book! -- When I have a house of my own, I shall be miserable if I have not an excellent library. ” Pride and Prejudice is hands down my favourite book of Jane Austen, and one of my favourite books this year. (2021)I have no idea what to say except to urge you to pick this book up. This is the book everyone must read at least once in your lifetime. “Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used synonymously. A person may be proud without being vain. Pride relates more to our opinion of ourselves, vanity to what we would have others think of us. ” My ratings and reviews for all of Austen's works based on preference-Pride & Prejudice- 5 starsNorthanger Abbey- 5 starsSense and Sensibility- 4 starsLove and Friendship- 4 starsPersuasion- 3 starsEmma- 3 starsMansfield Park- 1. 5 starsDISCLAIMER- All opinions on books I’ve read and reviewed are my own, and are with no intention to offend anyone. If you feel offended by my reviews, let me know how I can fix it. How I Rate-1 star- Hardly liked anything/ was disappointed2 star- Had potential but did not deliver/ was disappointed3 stars- Was ok but could have been better/ was average / Enjoyed a lot but something was missing4 stars- Loved a lot but something was missing 5 stars. Loved it.

I'm a great believer in the idea that if anyone didn't like this book it's because they didn't read it properly and/or are possessed. In all seriousness, the wit is timeless and Austen should always be remembered as a literary genius, as I hope she will.

I don't know what to say about Pride and Prejudice, because I've read so many reviews by readers who adore it. I can't match them in any way. I can only contribute that the book is deceptively complex, the themes of pride, prejudice, class, family, and marriage playing a big role in shaping this story. Please excuse my lack of ideas. This novel is the work of a person with such a strong mental fortitude that my words of praise ring hollow to me. Jane Austen humbled me with her perception. She is such a fantastic writer. This is what happens when you write not to please everybody. Disney take note, you bastard. My first 5 star book of the year.

“Tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt me. ”Pride and Prejudice is a love story surrounding the young Elisabeth Bennet in 19th England. Her parents are desperate for at least one of their five daughters to find a wealthy husband. Austen's story touches on topics such as marrying for love, social prestige, manners and the pressure to assure financial security. Elizabeth BennetKeira Knightly in the movie adaption 2005Elizabeth is the protagonist of the story and the the most intelligent and quick-witted among her sisters. She is one of the most well-known female characters in English literature, with numerous qualities —she is lovely, clever, and her honesty, virtue, and lively wit enable her to rise above the nonsense and superficial behavior that dominate the class-bound and spiteful society surrounding her. Nevertheless, her sharp tongue and tendency to make hasty judgments often lead her to make premature decisions. Ultimately Elizabeth overcomes all obstacles, including her own failings, to find the man she loves, while coping with the expectations of her parents, her siblings, and several snobbish, antagonizing females. Love Elizabeth Bennet and Mr. Darcy -one of the most cherished love stories in English literature. The romance between the wealthy Mr. Darcy and Elizabeth is one of the most cherished love stories in English literature. They have to overcome numerous difficulties, starting with the tensions caused by their own personalities, to find their love. Elizabeth’s pride makes her misjudge Darcy on the basis of a poor first impression as he sexually insults her, while his prejudice against her poor social standing blinds him. Elizabeth has to overcome her mistaken impressions of him, but as she gradually comes to recognize the nobility of his character, she realizes the error of her initial prejudice against him. Meanwhile they have to overcome countless smaller obstacles, created by the characters around them. In each case, anxieties about social connections, or the desire for better social connections, interfere with their love. Austen pictures love as something independent of social forces, that can conquer even the most difficult of circumstances. IntegrityElizabeth‘s high standards of integrity make her feel superiorElizabeth Bennet considers herself to have very high standards of integrity, and is often frustrated and disappointed by the way she sees others behaving. She complains bitterly to her sister that “The more I see of the world, the more am I dissatisfied with it, and every day confirms my belief of the inconsistency of all human characters. ” She behaves in ways she considers consistent with her definition of integrity and is not willing to marry a man she doesn’t loves and respect, despite the pressure to achieve economic security. Ultimately her commitment to integrity is rewarded because she marries out of true love, but not before she learned that she was mistaken about her prejudice about who had integrity and who didn’t. The novel therefore endorses the importance of integrity, but reminds readers not to be too quick to pass judgement on who has it, and who doesn’t. But because Elizabeth‘s presumptions about Mr. Darcy turn out to be wrong, “Pride and Prejudice” also discredits the legitimacy of women’s feelings- the unhappiness of women within the patriarchal system—which was the foundation of the feminist argument. Social structure Austen observes social structures, but just in a limited way, and rather accepts their inevitability. Pride and Prejudice depicts a society in which a woman’s reputation is of the utmost importance. A woman is expected to behave in certain ways. Stepping outside the social norms makes her vulnerable to ostracism. And while the happy ending of Pride and Prejudice is emotionally satisfying, it leaves the theme of reputation, and the importance placed on reputation when social norms are broken, mostly unexplored. The lines of class are strictly drawn. The Bennet’s belong to the middle class and socialize with the upper-class families, but they are clearly their social inferiors and treated as such. Austen satirizes this kind of class-consciousness, through the marriages and emphasizes on the power of love and happiness to overcome class boundaries and prejudices. But Austen doesn’t really represent anyone from the lower classes; those servants she does portray are generally happy with their position. Austen observes social structures and the strictly regimented nature of life for the middle and upper classes in Regency England, and she does criticize class structure but only in a very limited way, which makes her rather accepts their inevitability. Gender role and familyThe role of women of the higher classes in 19th EnglandThe story takes place at a time when gender roles were rigid, and men and women had a very different set of options and influences. Marriage is a pressing question for women, because it is the only way for them to achieve economic stability and autonomy. As upper class women, they would not have been able to work to earn a living, or live independently. Marriage offered one of the only ways to move beyond their birth families. However, a woman’s marriageability relied on an impeccable reputation for chastity, and a reckless decision to trust the wrong man could permanently ruin their future prospects. The novel also focus on the networks of family connections that shape the character‘s decisions and perspectives. For the female characters in particular, the influence and behavior of their family members is a significant factor in their lives, showing that individuals never lead totally autonomous lives, and that individual actions have wider communal implications. “I could easily forgive his pride, if he had not mortified mine. ” Austen pictured the beauty of love, marriage and happy endings, while throwing in some quick witt and sarcasm. She observes the social structures of the early 19th Britain, but limits herself to the upper classes, without offering thorough critique or reflecting on the live of less privileged people or the ongoing war. With that in mind, she offers a quite perfect teenage love story, with the wish fulfillment of being desired by a wealthy man from a higher social class, but is rather shallow.

listening to pride and prejudice while doing a puzzle and drinking tea is perhaps one of the most old lady things I have ever done, but I have no regrets. I first read pride and prejudice back when I was about 12 to prove to myself that I was Mature and Sophisticated. Instead, I spent more time looking up what certain words meant than actually enjoying the story. Surprise! early 19th century language is quite a bit different to today's English. Once I got past my initial confusion, I enjoyed it. I then watched the BBC series adaptation and found myself liking it a lot more (no, it wasn't just because of Collin Firth as Mr Darcy. . . ). I finally bit the bullet to reread it after my mum did so for the first time and wanted to watch some of the adaptations with me. I was a little nervous because of my rocky experience the first time round, but this time I decided to borrow the audiobook from my library. That was a great decision, as it prevented me from interfering with the flow of the story to look up random words and instead get immersed. Hearing the accent and just someone read it out loud really helped to make me connect with the characters and the setting. If you are similarly intimidated by classics I would recommend trying out an audiobook of them! Overall, this was such a warm, cozy read that I can finally understand why it is so well loved and been made into countless movies and tv shows. I can't wait to rewatch the 1995 and possibly 2005 version with Keira Knightly. (I am also kind of intrigued by Pride and Prejudice and Zombies- is it good?) If you have any opinions on the adaptions I would love to hear them and maybe binge some!

Will I read Pride and Prejudice again? Yes, a thousand times, yes! Near perfection! P & P is one of those rare gems that weds character, plot and language all in one harmonious marriage. Austen's plotting is so very precise here. It's an absolute pleasure to behold. The timing is impeccable and there is very little, if any, fat in the prose to slow it down. Finding new clues to future plot twists and turns with each reread has reached the level of a sport for me now! They say, write what you know. Austen knew the life of the upper class (more precisely, the lower ranks of the upper class). She knew all about sitting around in parlors waiting to one day possibly be wed. She knew the rules of engagement that her class and gender imposed upon her. And so she wrote about those things and wrote well, weaving complex love triangles in a realistic, down-to-earth style. Some readers, often American, complain that Austen's work is tedious and unimpassioned. They are annoyed by characters that do not speak out or act when action would resolve the problems that arise in the social situations that make up the basis of Austen's stories. They lose sight of the fact that the early 19th century is not early 21st. Heck, it's not even the same country. To some living 200 years after Austen published, these sensibilities do not readily make sense. You must understand that the basis of Austen's writing is founded upon the mores of her time. What makes P & P so exciting and intriguing is that our protagonist does push back, she does speak out. She does all those things we modern day readers wish she'd do. You just have to read very carefully to see it all happening. It's occasionally quite subtle, but it's there. A familiarity with early 19th century England, its language and customs will help unveil this novel's beauty and brilliance. While I would not have wanted to be a woman living then, essentially tied down and utterly reliant on a wealthy man's whim for my happiness or even salvation, I try to at least enjoy the spectacle of something absolutely foreign to the way I live. Watching these people in the midst of arguing or courting is much like watching the controlled chaos of a boxing match. The principle parties are dueling like fighters looking to beat the crap out of one another, yet under strict rules by which they are bound. Break the rules and you may be disqualified. The constraints these people put themselves under in the name of civility may seem fanciful to us outsiders, but for a woman whose very livelihood depended on winning this bizarre game, it was very real. (Reviews of film and television adaptations to come! )

I heartily enjoy period romance. Jane Austen's particular style of writing, however, leaves me a bit cold. It's a rule that writers are supposed to write what they know. If Austen stayed true to that rule, I really feel bad for her. Because she must have known nothing but shallow, self-absorbed, slightly idiotic people. While the sisters Bronte were capable of creating characters that even today's reader can identify with (complete with passion and realistic, heart-warming flaws), Austen's characters are devoid of any depth whatsoever. They all just seem to be flitting through life with one goal in mind; for the men, finding a woman who's easy on the eyes, and for the women, finding a man who's heavy on the bank. Now, I'll concede that Austen was technically a good writer, but that doesn't mean her stories were interesting, engrossing, or even slightly entertaining. In fact, I found that I had to force myself to finish Pride and Prejudice, and was fueled mostly by a deep resentment and anger for having even started it in the first place. "If this is how it begins", I thought to myself, "How pissed am I going to be by the end?"The answer? Pretty pissed. I made the mistake of reading this book after watching the 2005 movie version starring Keira Knightley. Big mistake. While the movie was sigh-inducing with its romance, the book reads like a 19th century woman's guide to bagging a rich husband. The final scene, where Darcy finally proposes to Elizabeth, was something I was looking forward to with cautious trepidation, cautious trepidation that ended up being well-founded; two people bartering over a used car would have been more romantic.

This is one of my favorite books and I will always, always love this.

I loved this so much more than I thought I would! Can’t believe it’s taken me this long to finally get to it, but now that I have it’s time to watch alllll the adaptations mwahaha

I had forgotten just how witty this novel is. And how key reticence is to the plot. In particular Elizabeth’s, in stark contrast with her mother who shoots off her mouth at every opportunity with a vulgarity that constantly has one squirming on Elizabeth’s behalf. Elizabeth is like the family editor, the family censor. It’s her who receives most of the critical information in the novel and very rarely does she share it. I often found myself puzzling why. In an age when women were largely silenced it seemed odd that Elizabeth voluntarily silenced herself. But it also made me keenly aware at times of how much human nature – or maybe female social decorum - has changed. When Elizabeth finds out why Bingley has dumped her sister she doesn’t tell her sister. I’m pretty sure all of us now would be on the phone to our sisters in a jiffy. Clearly Austen didn’t find this a strange decision; in fact she breezes over the disclosure so swiftly it’s as if she assumes the reader would perfectly understand Elizabeth’s motive without any explanation. Maybe Elizabeth’s extreme reticence was a plot device, a very effective one to be sure because it enables Darcy to remain mysterious and it even enables Elizabeth to remain mysterious to herself. It’s super clever of Austen to refer to Darcy as proud throughout the novel when in fact it’s Elizabeth who is the more entrenched culprit of that emotional stance. It’s largely her pride that creates the atmosphere of prejudice around Darcy. It’s also a novel that makes you miss being in love. As much for all the anxiety, embarrassment, keyed-up second guessing, girly gossiping/speculation and ghastly self-consciousness as the elation and well-being. In short, I loved it again and found it didn’t matter one iota that I knew what was coming. Only brilliant writing and craftsmanship can sustain dramatic tension when you know what is going to happen next. As a footnote when I was seventeen my mother told me I needed to develop the Elizabeth in my nature and curb the Lydia. Thing is, the Lydia type has more kudos now than she had in Austen’s time. Psychotherapy would probably argue for a balance between the impulsive Lydia and editorial Elizabeth as a model of behaviour. You sense Austen held a similar view.

I give this book 4. 5 stars which rounds up to 5. This was my second book by Jane Austen, the first being Sense and Sensibility. When I read Sense and Sensibility, I found that I liked it but wasn’t blown away by it. And given the fact that I now remember absolutely nothing about it, it didn’t leave much of an impression on me. Going into Pride and Prejudice, I didn’t know if it was going to be like that too, so I didn’t have very high expectations. Additionally, I did read an adapted version of Pride and Prejudice for kids when I was little, and I remember enjoying that but that was a watered down version written in very plain English. Fortunately, I enjoyed Pride and Prejudice a lot more than Sense and Sensibility. I loved the storyline and plot. Initially, I feared that I might get bored, but I was throughly engaged throughout the novel. There was always something of interest happening. The short chapters also helped because it made the book go by very quickly. I’m actually impressed that I finished this in less than a week because I for sure thought it would take me a least one week. I also loved the characters, the Bennet family especially. The mother was hilarious and so over the top. Elizabeth and Jane’s sisterly bond was very strong and that was so nice to see. Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner were also pretty awesome. As for Mr. Darcy, I have to admit I did find him to be pretty swoon-worthy. I didn’t want to fall for him because everyone loves him, but it was hard not to. Lastly, I found the book to be just a tad bit too short. I wanted more, but I guess that’s just the sign of a good book. Overall, Pride and Prejudice exceeded my expectations and I am glad that I finally read this much beloved and talked about classic.

"It is a truth universally acknowledged that a single man in possession of good fortune must be in want of a wife. " Oh, how this opening line made me appreciate the change in times and the century I was born into. Jane Austen is a powerhouse who held the torch and led the way for so many women and romantic novelists to follow. Given the time of the novel's creation, Lizzy, the main character, is bold, bright, defiant, and perhaps the beginning manifestations of women who thought for themselves and spoke and acted more freely upon those thoughts. Austen roamed the earth during the 18th century when women were expected to do little outside of bringing their family pride by becoming an accessory to a (hopefully wealthy) man's life. Within this book's pages, Austen defies the patriarchy in so many ways, making me wonder if this was her means of relinquishing her own sense of power. I fell in love with her writing style and found myself texting my "dearest" friends, asking if they may "fancy" such and such. Update: I'm still doing this a month later. Pride and Prejudice was my first Jane Austen novel, and it certainly did not disappoint. I'm looking forward to venturing through the pages of her other work in the future.

Pride and Prejudice is a masterpiece. One of the best books I've read. A true classic ! ! !

I reread Pride and Prejudice (1813) again and maybe will reread all of the novels of Jane Austen in 2021, but this one, my favorite, is the great one, one of the best novels ever, and I have now reread it a second time this year, in part because I read it with a friend this summer and because we read it in a class I am teaching in Fall 2021 using primarily Young Adult Literature. I began with this book and then we'll read almost exclusively YAL. I/we are also reading spin-off books such as Pride by Ibi Zoboi, Unmarriageable and others, even a board book version I own! We also read a comics biography of Jane Austen, and will read a range of comics romances. I own the Colin Firth and Keira Knightly versions of this novel and really enjoy them. I own numerous copies of this book, which became the foundation of my MA Thesis in 1984 on what I thought Jane Austen was trying to accomplish through the romances in her novels (I was initially going to write about each of the books, but pared it down to Pride, Emma and Persuasion, finally). I no longer have a copy of my essay, but I think the focus was on the novel as social criticism, social satire, seen through the lens of romance. Sometime in the early eighties I first read P &P for a graduate class and thought after reading it quickly that it was a pretty good romance; when I showed up at the class on the history of the novel, taught by a film and novels professor, Irv Kroese, he opened the class by reading the first sentence:“It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife. ”And he proceeded to lecture our small seminar for an entire hour--I'm not kidding--on the first sentence (okay, maybe it was the whole first paragraph) and how it changed the face of literature forever. The irony, the layering, the complexity, no novels had had quite this tone, these purposes, before. I went home after that class and reread it slowly, and just a bit more carefully, and began to see how great it is. I listened to it in the summer, and it was thoroughly entertaining for me all over again. The Bennett family is hilariously anguishing in its quest to get all of the daughters financially set--which is to say, "well-married," in a year. Some boy crazy family, this one, you might say, but underneath that surface hilarity around marriageability are some serious questions about the options available to young women, even middle-class young women, in the first decade of the nineteenth century. The questions are occasioned in part by the appearance of some seemingly sophisticated and possibly wealthy young men to the rural village where the Bennett family (including their FIVE daughters) live. Other questions ensue; the book, initially titled First Impressions, examines the way both pride and prejudice impede the development of, well, everything, though principally, in this book, romantic relationships. You marry for love, not money, many of us will agree, but it's complicated. "What do you hope to do in your life, young man," a father asks a potential suitor of his daughter. That principal of making sure a future is secured fro your daughter==because she has little power herself in this society--is relevant. There are some great comic characters in this book through which we examine different aspects of society, including both Mr. and Mrs. Bennett. Father Bennett at one point says:"An unhappy alternative is before you, Elizabeth. From this day you must be a stranger to one of your parents. Your mother will never see you again if you do NOT marry Mr. Collins, and I will never see you again if you DO. "The awkwardly arrogant Mr. Collins who, turned down for his breathtakingly ham-handed marriage proposal to Elizabeth, gets an acceptance from her friend a mere three days later (! ). So, there's four principal relationships we can use as a matter of comparison and contrast for the purpose of moral guidance in this matter of conducting relationships:* Mr. Collins is rich and a buffoon, but Elizabeth's cousin, who says she is not romantic, but practical, marries the old guy for a secure future. Reasonable, but not our ideal life. * The untrustworthy Wickham and the flighty Lydia. This couple in the scheme of things is fun, witty, but not deeply committed to each other, financially irresponsible, so not the model for marriage. * The most admired couple, Jane and Bingley. This is the thoroughly good couple. Steady. They are steady, maybe a tad boring, but this is an ideal for Austen. They marry for love, and the money is right. * And the least warm, the most proud, the most prejudiced, but the most interesting (and smartest, most insightful) couple, Elizabeth and Darcy. Eventually, they'll marry for love. . and then money jusyt happens to be part of the bargain, lucky! ? Oh, and here's his first proposal, astonishing Elizabeth even more than Collins did in its audacity:“In vain have I struggled. It will not do. My feelings will not be repressed. You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire and love you. ” Elizabeth’s astonishment was beyond expression. She stared, coloured, doubted, and was silent. This he considered sufficient encouragement, and the avowal of all that he felt and had long felt for her, immediately followed. He spoke well, but there were feelings besides those of the heart to be detailed, and he was not more eloquent on the subject of tenderness than of pride. His sense of her inferiority—of its being a degradation—of the family obstacles which judgment had always opposed to inclination, were dwelt on with a warmth which seemed due to the consequence he was wounding, but was very unlikely to recommend his suit. "But it is Darcy's letter to Elizabeth later, that turns the tide: Man changes his manners; woman changes her mind. This is a wonderfully insightful and funny novel that I recommend everyone read!

I hope Jane Austen is somewhere up there and that, even in death, she knows that Elizabeth Bennett is still That Bitch in 2019. “It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife. ” Pride and Prejudice is one of those books that comes with the "everyone who has a literature degree should have read this" stamps and I am, in fact, doing a literature degree. The sheer amount of times this has been referenced in the course of my degree definitely made me think I should read it. The good news is, everyone seems to love this book. Even people who don't really like classics. And guess what? The hype was right because I kinda love it tooPride and Prejudice is an excellent social commentary delving into the tenuous economic positions women in the 19th century held. Mrs Bennett's desperate scramble to marry off her daughters, particularly Jane and Elizabeth, as soon as the eligible bachelors Mr Bingley and Mr Darcy wander into town provides for an entertaining and often hilarious tale but it's also dire in that throughout the novel you are well aware that the sisters face potential poverty and homelessness should they not find good marriages sometime before their fathers death. And for me, one of the real strengths of this book is how well it balances out the romance and the satirical humour of the situation with the real reality of the situation. While this book did make me laugh, I really have to sympathise with Mrs Bennett and what she's trying to do here. It's also really interesting when you consider that there is an element of Jane Austen's own life reflected in the situation the girls find themselves in. “We are all fools in love” I think what I loved about this is the pure drama of it all, but it's all so serious in it's frivolity. Even though we're talking about getting sick to hang out at your mans house longer, and buying ugly bonnets and running off with your new soldier boyfriend, the drama is compelling. I think that a real strength of this book is that it is so insightful. All the drama is perfectly positioned to make a Point, and all of it is deadly serious. Even though it's kind of funny Mrs Bennett is going to force her daughter to catch a cold just so she can (maybe) hang out with Bingley a bit longer, there is also a element of understanding and truth that rings in it - these girls really DO need to go to all lengths to get married. The satire is so well placed, and the story is so thoughtful. Elizabeth Bennett is also such a compelling and fun main character. She IS that bitch! ! I loved how rebellious and independent she was, and her relationship with Jane was so beautiful. I really loved the focus on the girls strong bond and the prioritisation of the girls relationships with eachother over anything else. Elizabeth is also ICONIC. The bit when she verbally beat the shit out of Mr Darcy? I truly have decided to stan forever. Speaking of Mr Darcy - I have to say he's not in it as much I expected?? Everyone RAVES ABOUT HIM and I get it because, yeah there is something really appealing about him being The Hot Rich Bachelor Who is Really Into You But He's Too Awkward To Show It but he honestly doesn't feel like he appears that much? For me it felt like the Bennett sisters and Elizabeth's struggle to reconcile her situation and her happiness were much more interesting and pertinent themes and relationships than the romance. THAT SAID, I do still love the romance. God, the slow burn, angsty beauty of it all. Are we talking about That Scene in Permberly? I'm talking about it. When he comes across the fields and they catch awkward eyes and it's like okay they're in love PHEW love that. Also, when Elizabeth is at dinner half hoping half dreading he will turn up. SISTER why is that so relatable when this is a 200 year old book ?? “I cannot fix on the hour, or the spot, or the look or the words, which laid the foundation. It is too long ago. I was in the middle before I knew that I had begun. ” There is something remarkable to me that in all the time since the publication of this book, so much of it stays relevant and loveable. I genuinely thought reading this it reads in some ways like a modern book. I loved that about reading this - even though it is obviously a classic it was so easy to read and get really invested in. It makes the reading experience so much better, since classics can be so hit and miss sometimes. Austen is funny and frank and insightful and thoughtful, and her characters are well developed and compelling. That Pride and Prejudice is so far from our everyday, and yet remains so relatable, and so beautiful, and that romance still stands is truly powerful in itself, and goes to show just what a GOOD book this is. I really really enjoyed this, and I plan on working through Austen's other works in the future. (Sense & Sensibility is most likely next). I will say this, literature world - I get the hype.

LMAO! “I could easily forgive his pride, if he had not mortified mine. ” Buddy read with my new cousin! ! Well, she isn't new, i just met her a few days ago for the first time. Now she hates me because I was just making fun of/ laughing at our dear Mr. Darcy the whole time. Oppps, not my fault that he is a first class jerk! That marriage proposal though! He should be giving lessons on romance and how to make a girl feel special. FULL REVIEW TO COME

This was actually a reread for me, I just didn't actively use GR when I read it before! Man I really love Jane Austen. I still don't think this has topped Sense & Sensibility as my favorite, but it's still so GOOD! I think the book does a better job of portraying Darcy in a different light than the 2005 movie, you can actually see his affections changing through some dialogue that isn't in that movie, and you can also see a bit more of the fault of Elizabeth for her prejudiced thoughts against him. It helps the narrative a bit more since he is less portrayed as a bad boy with a heart of gold, and rather as someone who is misrepresented & makes mistakes. Lots of other things to talk about - bingley is as precious a cinnamon roll as ever (as is Jane) and mr Bennet is still one of my all time favorite fictional characters. I just love this book a lot.

Pride and Prejudice: The NovelA (Mostly) Accurate Abridgement. MRS BENNET: Oh look! Rich neighbours, quick go introduce yourself, Mr Bennet, I have to flog at least one of these useless daughters off. Mah poor nerves! MR BENNET: Actually, I'd rather psychologically torture you. ELIZABETH: Mama, you are TSTL. Daddy loves me, I'm his favourite, not you. *At a Ball in the butt-fuck middle of nowhere*DARCY: God, every one of these girls is an ugly basic bitch. CAROLINE: IKR. Haha *whispers* I love you. ELIZABETH: Hey Sexy, wanna dance?DARCY: Sorry, you're too poor and ugly. ELIZABETH: Fuck you! I didn't really want to dance with you anyway, you autist cuck. *Meanwhile*BINGLEY: I want to sex you. JANE: Ditto. *Jane faces killer rain*MRS BENNET: Jane, go twerk for Bingley, maybe he'll marry you! JANE: Mama, can I have the carriage? I don't want to die of the flu from a bit of rain. MRS BENNET: Deathbed weddings are very in right now. ELIZABETH: Daddy, mama's being stupid again, can Jane have the carriage, cause it looks like it could rain?MR BENNET: Nah, maybe Jane will die and it will serve your stupid mother right. ELIZABETH: Oh Daddy! You're so witty and clever. Love you. Bye Jane, hope you don't die when a few droplets of rain hit your skin. JANE: Thanks Elizabeth. You're my favourite sister. *Jane almost ded*ELIZABETH: Where is mah sista? DARCY: Goddamn, love a girl who works out. She dirty. JANE: I might actually die, you know. ELIZABETH: Go the fuck to sleep, I'm busy teasing Darcy, who I totally hate and don't think is hot at all. *Shows off her fine figure with a bit more walking*DARCY: Goddamn that girl can walk! CAROLINE: You’re uncommonly fast, Darcy. DARCY: I think you’ll find my speed perfectly normal. ELIZABETH: Are you talking about your handwriting speed? CAROLINE and DARCY: *Look at one another* Yeah. *Let's have another Ball*DARCY: Dance with me, Elizabeth. MR COLLINS: Dance with my Elizabeth. MR WICKHAM: Dance with me, Elizabeth. JANE: I thought I was the hot one?LYDIA: No, you're the good sister. I'm the hot sister. JANE: LOL slut. You the morality tale. MARY: Hey guys… hey guys… hey guys…hey guys…hey guys…hey guys. . . I've got middle child syndrome. DARCY: Do you think my obsession with fine eyes will spawn a hundred thousand shitty romance novels that fetishize eyeballs?ELIZABETH: What?DARCY: Nvm*The Morning After*JANE: Bingley doesn't want to sex me anymore. *cries*ELIZABETH: Poor Jane. I’m getting an offer a minute. LOL. Even Daddy loves me more then you. MR COLLINS: Marry me?ELIZABETH: Eww. No. MR COLLINS: I married your best friend instead. ELIZABETH (to CHARLOTTE): You're not my best friend anymore. *A gamble at a card party*MR WICKHAM: [ 8===0~ ] Sent you a dick pic. ELIZABETH: *Checks phone* Marry me. MR WICKHAM: Sorry fam. You too poor. ELIZABETH: Psych! I never really liked you anyway. *A convenient visit with frenemies*DARCY: Marry Me. ELIZABETH: I, like, literally hate you. DARCY: If you can’t take me at my worst, you don’t deserve me at my best. *mic drop* *Visit to Pemberley; cause that’s not weird *ELIZABETH: Holy shit, Darcy’s loaded. *Thinking face*AUNT GARDINER: I thought you hated him?ELIZABETH: I mean… *Meanwhile at Spring Break*LYDIA: Want to create some convenient dramatic tension?MR WICKHAM: Can we bone?LYDIA: Hell yeah. MR WICKHAM: Bitch, let’s go. *Back at Pemberley*ELIZABETH: Even thou my family has offended you at every turn please, please save our honour. *cries*DARCY: *Puts the cape on* I might not be the hero you deserve. But I’m the hero you need. *Shotgun wedding*DARCY:. Marry Lydia, right now! MR WICKHAM: Pay me. DARCY: You literal prostitute Wickham. *Pause* How you feel bout being brothers-in-law?MR WICKHAM: Hahahahahahah. Sure, fam. BTW Elizabeth saw my dick. DARCY: I fucking hate you, Wickham. MR WICKHAM: Ditto, give me mah money. *Back in the butt- fuck countryside*LADY CATHERINE: Don’t you dare marry my nephew, slut. ELIZABETH: I’ll do what I want! I mean. . . have you seen Pemberley? LOL *Happy Ending*BINGLEY: Marry me so I can sex you. JANE: Yah! DARCY: I really, really wanna sex you, marry me?ELIZABETH: K. MR BENNET: But what about me?ELIZABETH: Don't make this weird, Dad. THE END My favourite book of all time, ladies and gentleman. ;) Jane Austen wrote social commentary

(Throwback Review) If you want to read one of the best books ever written, please don't think twice. Just grab a copy of this book and get yourself imbibed into this evocative story that right away establishes an emotional connection with us. “There is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at the will of others. My courage always rises at every attempt to intimidate me. ”

It still tops the list of my all time favourite books! ! 8-10-18: Did a late night sitting yesterday and finished it! :D :D A proper review is *fingers crossed* coming soon. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

"It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife. However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on his first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds of the surrounding families, that he is considered the rightful property of some one or other of their daughters. " The Bennets are one such family, with five unmarried daughters, and the family estate entailed away from the female line, but prejudice abounds. The unexpected and sudden appearance of the eligible, rich, and handsome, Mr Darcy, known locally for his pride and incivility, and the slightly less rich, but milder mannered, and more even tempered, Mr Bingley, provokes great excitement in most, if not all, quarters: "Without thinking highly either of men or matrimony, marriage had always been her object; it was the only provision for well-educated young women of small fortune, and however uncertain of giving happiness, must be their pleasantest preservative from want. ""I am going tomorrow where I shall find a man who has not one agreeable quality, who has neither manner nor sense to recommend him. Stupid men are the only ones worth knowing, after all. "And so it proceeds. Will pride and prejudice prevent any satisfactory alliance?After watching the BBC TV series numerous times, I decided it was finally time to read this period classic. The BBC have done a good job in being faithful to the original work, other than the ending which is extended a lot in the book. The TV series is also very well cast, and the characters represented as I'm sure the author had envisaged when writing. (I did not like the more modern movie version. )This is one of my favourite classics. I recommend it to all.

In view of creating a more pleasant atmosphere, I strongly suggest you read the following review AND the book itself with the most elegant, articulate British accent! ***This is by far the best classic literature I’ve read! ! ! ***To begin with, Pride and Prejudice mainly surrounded several families and relatives of the Bennets, depicting their second daughter, Elizabeth’s, love story and all the turning points until she met and settled with Mr. Handsome Darcy. To my surprise, there weren’t many characters in this book as I expected, as a result, it was a piece of cake to remember every one of them since they all possessed some features that were pretty memorable. Thanks to the author’s vivid descriptions, I could effortlessly picture the entire image in my mind throughout the story. Also, according to the title of the book, it’s not hard to tell that our Mr. Darcy had a distinguishable personality of pride and a bit indifference when judging from a stranger to him, whereas our dear Elizabeth held a certain level of prejudice toward him in that she wasn’t familiar with him at first. ”What does Mr. Darcy mean,” said she to Charlotte, “by listening to my conversation with Colonel Forster?”“That is a question which Mr. Darcy only can answer. ” Anyway, this is a highly-praised masterpiece about a man changed his manners and a young lady changed her mind. ”There is, I believe, in every disposition a tendency to some particular evil, a natural defect, which not even the best education can overcome. ”“And your defect is a propensity to hate every body. ”“And yours,” he replied with a smile, “is wilfully to misunderstand them. ” Let’s start from the beginning, shall we? We got a detailed definition from Lizzy’s younger sister, Mary, of an essential respect in humanity, pride, and that was how everything concerning Mr. Darcy all originated. So, what is pride? ”Pride,” observed Mary, who piqued herself upon the solidity of her reflections, “is a very common failing I believe. By all that I have ever read, I am convinced that it is very common indeed, that human nature is particularly prone to it, and that there are very few of us who do not cherish a feeling of self-complacency on the score of some quality or other, real or imaginary. ” As for prejudice, since Lizzy’s knowledge of Mr. Darcy primarily learned from her gossiping mother, Mrs. Bennet, who, in my opinion, was a really superficial person because she knew nothing more than rumours and automatically spread the word or implanted falsehoods of him to Lizzy. Therefore, half of the book described how poor Lizzy showed little respect to him and avoided conversation with him, though she was extremely curious about this guy who seemed like not caring to spare a dance with any fair lady in a ball in the meanwhile. ”I dare say you will find him very agreeable. ””Heaven forbid! --That would be the greatest misfortune of all! —To find a man agreeable whom one is determined to hate! —Do not wish me such an evil. ” Despite the fact that they sounded like an impossible pair in the story, during their encounters with each other, either by accident or under utter reluctance, there’s no denying that even in their as-short-as-possible conversation, epic humour never extinguished. (Mr. Darcy:)”Sir William’s interruption has made me forget what we were talking of. ”“I do not think we were speaking at all. Sir William could not have interrupted any two people in the room who had less to say for themselves. —We have tried two or three subjects already without success, and what we are to talk of next I cannot imagine. ” AND their next subject was as funny as this one. I could totally feel the tension and Lizzy’s uncontrollable excitement even though she pretended to be completely uninterested. "What think you of books?" said he, smiling. "Books -- Oh! no. -- I am sure we never read the same, or not with the same feelings. " "I am sorry you think so; but if that be the case, there can at least be no want of subject. -- We may compare our different opinions. " "No -- I cannot talk of books in a ball-room; my head is always full of something else. " See? Isn’t it obvious they were both trying to ”open their lips” as if they had nothing else to do? However, with one almost blinded with pride and the other followed simply by her predisposition, no success was made. Mercifully, once upon a time Mr. Darcy finally took a step closer to Lizzy, and was the first to proceed with little talks! Here’s one when Lizzy was invited to a walk by Miss Bingley, who made lots of endeavor to win Darcy over, and he came out of nowhere and bumped into them. ”I have not the smallest objection to explaining them,” said he, as soon as she allowed him to speak. “You either chuse this method of passing the evening because you are in each other’s confidence and have secret affairs to discuss, or because you are conscious that your figures appear to the greatest advantage in walking;--if the first, I should be completely in your way;--and if the second, I can admire you much better as I sit by the fire. " I think the twists and turns in this book were always quick and concise, for example, some intense moments or incidents were mentioned in just a few sentences but the consequence played an indispensable role, yet they usually developed rather slowly. Another reason that made this book unputdownable is the connection among characters. That is, speaking of Mr. Collins or Mr. Wickham, my mind would wander to Mr. Darcy(well, not the usual kind of wandering! ) and wonder where he was at that specific timing. Take Lady Catherine for another example, when she showed up and spent some time with the Bennet family, I couldn’t stop thinking what Mrs. Bennet was doing then(since she was MIA sometimes, and ”always”, when I finally paid attention to her). Above all, you can see my reading progress below↓and that basically explains why I spent more than a week on this book. At about 50% of the book, I feel the urge to admit that the chemistry between our lovely Lizzy and Mr. Darcy was practically killing me. A part of me really wanted to burst their romantic bubbles but a part of me couldn’t resist the temptation of witnessing more of their half-awkward, half-humourous reaction. Eventually, the latter part of myself stood up and see what I got. Their eyes instantly met, and the cheeks of each were overspread with the deepest blush. He absolutely started, and for a moment seemed immovable from surprise; but shortly recovering himself, advanced towards the party, and spoke to Elizabeth, if not in terms of perfect composure, at least of perfect civility. As their relationship gradually formed, I was pretty sure the previous waiting was worthwhile and as I said before, the plot indeed went sweetly nice and slow. Even in that period of time, around late 17th and early 18th century, confession between two might-be-in-love people could be as beautiful and bold as the declaration of love these days. And that’s why I think the readers can resonate so much from this story. ”In vain have I struggled. It will not do. My feelings will not be repressed. You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire and love you. ” Apart from the romance or the marriages of other family members, there’s another point I truly appreciated. Jane Austen’s way of telling stories was quite impressive in that her words not only reflected on the social conditions in her time but were applicable to the situations nowadays. We know that Pride and Prejudice isn’t just about some cliché love stories or cheesy plots; there are far more serious facts in it, including negative sides of humanity, societal problems, and inequality of personal bias. So when I read this, I could possibly relate to some of her perspectives/statements because what she pointed out were too realistic to deny. ”who would willingly have gone through the world without believing that so much wickedness existed in the whole race of mankind, as was here collected in one individual. ” I do believe what she meant by wickedness here can reasonably expand to other aspects in reality, such as any unmoral deeds or impossible behaviors among human beings, just to name a few. With the end of the story approaching, as one of my statuses implied, this book made me become the happiest person on Earth! That was when I read this simple paragraph, and it wasn’t simple at all! The power and meaning behind those words were exceedingly exciting for me; this kind of feeling was definitely beyond Homo sapiens languages. ”Can you possibly guess, Lizzy, who is meant by this?””This young gentleman is blessed in a peculiar way, with every thing the heart of mortal can most desire, --splendid property, noble kindred, and extensive patronage. ” If you don’t know where this is, I even took a picture at that moment merely because I was too happy to not sharing the joy with you. Hmm…at least there’s the context so perhaps you’ll better get it(?) As a result of these irresistible characteristics along with his sparkling charisma, no wonder he was voted as the most ideal husband in the United Kingdom! Okay, we’re almost ‘til the end, but I really, really, really still have countless quotes and thoughts to express! Ugh, why do I always come up with even more ideas whenever I ponder deeply on those quotes? *screaming quietly* Anyway, it was absolutely priceless to see our beloved Prince Handsome exclaim the following speech and I was more than willing to let him melt my heart once again. ”…Such I was, from eight to eight and twenty; and such I might still have been but for you, dearest, loveliest Elizabeth! What do I not owe you! You taught me a lesson, hard indeed at first, but most advantageous. By you, I was properly humbled. I came to you without a doubt of my reception. You shewed me how insufficient were all my pretensions to please a woman worthy of being pleased. ” Don’t go away yet, people! We haven’t seen how Lizzy responded to his once-in-a-lifetime-kind-of-sweet-speech! Well, though she never accepted nor rejected him in public, I’m positive that most of you know the ending but how can we not say goodbye to her one last time? I certainly miss her undying humour now. ”Mr. Darcy, I am a very selfish creature; and, for the sake of giving relief to my own feelings, care not how much I may be wounding your’s. ” Please do continue this part of the book! Not quoting it here or else there’ll be no fun in reading this! All in all, Pride and Prejudice is undoubtedly an amazing book and a must-read in life! It not only contains the funny banters in that period but also brings out the natural beauty of English vocabularies, spellings, and grammar. Even if I was not a big fan of Classics, this book surprises me a lot and I think it changes my stereotypical fear for the genre. Now I’m actually eager to read some more books from Classic Literature! ******Finis*****The following section is just my personal opinion which isn’t related to the book, not really. Comparison among Jane Austen and the BrontësWhile reading this one, I can’t help but comparing Jane Austen to Charlotte Brontë(author of Jane Eyre) and Emily Brontë(author of Wuthering Heights). The three of them lived in a similar era, yet their writing styles as well as the presentation of their stories not only gave us completely different feelings but various insights into the obviously contrary backgrounds at that time. Pride and Prejudice talked of a common phenomenon of matching marriage and ended happily, with some British humour thereupon, while the counterpart of romance in Jane Eyre was bittersweet, regardless of the heart-wrenching happy ending; needless to say, the love in Wuthering Heights was much more twisted, heartbroken, and the characters still suffered a lot no matter how much love they invested in each other simply because of the gap in social statuses. This kind of variety indeed intrigues me a lot and thus I read the appendix in the last part of the book, which gave me better understanding and interpretation of Pride and Prejudice. For starters, I totally agree with the introducer of the original version, Tony Tanner’s, briefing of the historical background when the story took place, ”For the most part the people are as fixed and repetitive as the linked routines and established social rituals which dominate their lives. " Precisely, I also believe that money is a potential problem(but never an actual) for them and courtship has its own drama, but whatever happened, they all tend towards the achieving of satisfactory marriages so that’s exactly the foundation Elizabeth Bennet and Mr. Darcy’s world was built on. Thus, I firmly believe both Jane Austen’s and the Brontës’ stories more or less mirrored the conditions in the past. And as a reader, I think it’s necessary to think over those issues whether out of curiosity or not.

It is a truth universally acknowledged, that an author possessing immense talent and a good story to tell, must be in want of a reader like me to bestow upon it the laurels it merits. How else will anyone hear of it?OK, so P&P may not need my help. The word is likely already out. What that means is that I can scurry around the periphery of the story itself, make a few small points, and move on with near certitude that Miss Austen will have an audience regardless. It had been quite a while since I’d read anything written so long ago. Of course, the language was very different, and for me that was part of the appeal. The musicality of it must owe to the baroque style of the time as well as to the skills of the writer. Her words were precise and descriptors well-chosen. This passage about the piano-playing abilities of the lightly regarded middle sister is but one of many examples: "Mary had neither genius nor taste; and though vanity had given her application, it had given her likewise a pedantic air and conceited manner, which would have injured a higher degree of excellence than she had reached. " This example is also one of many instances where an air or manner was defined, or a countenance, bearing or nature. Much was read into facial expressions, too. Remember, this came from a time before “show, don’t tell. ”As an older vintage depiction, there were also big differences in the social norms of the day -- the mores and the protocols. It’s a cliché to point out that Austen’s books are about manners, but it’s true nonetheless. Courtships, for instance, had rigid rules that are almost laughable to our modern ways of thinking. And the language was so stylized and indirect. Subtitles would make for a good skit, like in Annie Hall where Alvy is talking to Annie early on about some abstract artsy thing while his real train of thought was, shall we say, less chaste. Monetary details, class, and family reputation were important determinants in the matches of the day, too. Books like this give us great historical insight into the social contracts and conventions. There’s no need for me to repeat in any detail what most people already know or could discover somewhere else better than this. Elizabeth Bennet is great. Mr. Darcy emerges. Jane and Bingley are charming, though nearly victims of a misunderstanding. Mr. Collins is an obsequious toad. Mr. Bennet is a bit too laissez-faire with a daughter or two who needed tighter reins. Mrs. Bennet is a woman “of weak understanding and illiberal mind. ” (I should have been using Miss Austen’s wording throughout. It’s not like I could improve upon it. ) Lydia is heedless and Wickham is evil. Of these latter two it was said, “how little of permanent happiness could belong to a couple who were only brought together because their passions were stronger than their virtue. ” The whole story is essentially how these characters play off of one another and sort out their relationships and their lives. Yes, and it’s told really well. It’s more than just the costume drama enthusiasts with their immoderate taste for romanticism that sustain this as a classic. I’ll close this hodgepodge hash of a review by introducing a fun new parlor game involving a mishmash of P&P characters. Pish posh you say? Well hear me out. First of all, if you haven’t already done so, read the book and learn the traits and idiosyncrasies of the characters. They range widely over multiple dimensions. Then take turns mapping these characters to the other players in the game. Composites are encouraged. For instance, my lovely bride of 30 years is 0. 872 Elizabeth for her perception, quick wit, and probity; 0. 127 Jane for her beauty and good nature; and 0. 001 Mrs. Bennet for having watched on more than one occasion that show where bridezillas rate other bridezillas’ weddings, critically and cattily. Then look to see which participants turn red with embarrassment, or even redder with anger.

Okay, I'll be honest: I didn't have a very good start with this book. I tried reading it in its original language at first, but I figured out rather quickly that this wouldn't work out. I just didn't get along with Austen's "outdated" writing (obviously it wasn't outdated back when she wrote the book, but to someone who only knows contemporary English, it almost seems like she is writing in a whole different language altogether). Thankfully, I was gifted a German edition of the novel for Christmas, and I cannot even begin to tell you how excited I was to finally read this classic story, which is mentioned and cited so often! But, oh no, once again: I didn't have a very good start. Yes, I found the first 100 pages entertaining, but I didn't understand what was so seemingly special. I was becoming more and more worried that I was missing something and would end up disliking this book, which is always included in those "Best Books Of All Time, That Everybody Definitely Needs To Read" - Lists. But then, more and more started happening, things got more and more interesting and I wished more and more that I could be right there with the characters, to talk (and gossip) about all those events! I still don't think that this is the most exciting or extraordinary book I have ever read. But it doesn't need to be! The time period it was written in needs to be taken into consideration, and for that, it is definitely astonishing. I would have never expected the amount of dry humor (which I loved very, very much) that is in there. And despite being written so long ago, the story still holds up! Obviously not every single part, but the family quarrels definitely feel timeless. I now fully understand why this book is so well-loved, and I cannot wait to reread it (probably soon - and then I will try my luck with the English version again)!

I probably can't add anything to the hundreds of other reviews of this classic, so I'll tell a story about it instead. When I was about 26, I decided to go back to school for my Master's (in Computer Science). As part of the application process, I had to take the GRE. One evening I was hanging out with my girlfriend and going through one of those vocabulary guides that list words you might see on standardized tests like the GRE. I was reading out to her the words I didn't know and was amazed at how many of them she recognized and defined accurately. After a while she said, "What you need to do is read more nineteenth century literature like Dickens or Jane Austen. That's where all these words come from. " I had read Dickens in high school, but never Jane Austen. "Jane Austen," I said. "What did she write?""Jane Austen. . . You know, Pride and Prejudice?""Oh, yeah. I've heard of that. Is it any good?""Is it any good? Do you mean you've never read Pride and Prejudice! ??""Noooo. . . "At this point my girlfriend went into a five minute long rant about how she couldn't believe she was dating somebody who was so illiterate that he had never read Pride and Prejudice, one of her favorite books of all time, and that I had to read it, and if I didn't like it I was a total loser. So, to make a long story short, I read Pride and Prejudice, looking up all the words I didn't recognize. I loved it, my girlfriend married me (eventually), and three of the words I learned were on the GRE. So I guess I owe both my marriage and my graduate degrees to Jane Austen!

I'm escaping reality to read Pride and Prejudice. I need a substantial feel-good book. It's what she deserves(Scroll down for spoilery commentary as I go along)If you're up for a Jane Austen read along, tag along and snatch your copy of this beautiful watercolor copy here for only $2. 99: • First and foremost, the ultimate way to enjoy Pride and Prejudice: Jennifer Ehle reading it to you. Just close your eyes and let her serene voice guide your imagination. You can't go wrong with her accessible bite-sized readings of two-three chapters per video. • “She is tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt me; I am in no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted by other men. ”oof, that never stops hurting. • “He is just what a young man ought to be,” said she, “sensible, good-humoured, lively; and I never saw such happy manners! ”I wonder why it is that even with someone as kind as Mr. Bingley around, i still choose to favor Mr. Darcy. . . • “Mrs. Long told me last night that he sat close to her for half-an-hour without once opening his lips. ” Darcy is me at public gatherings• “Miss Bingley told me,” said Jane, “that he never speaks much, unless among his intimate acquaintances. With them he is remarkably agreeable. ”Darcy, representing introverts everywhere• “That is very true,” replied Elizabeth, “and I could easily forgive his pride, if he had not mortified mine. ”This line flows so nicely that I have to utter it along with the narrator• “Occupied in observing Mr. Bingley’s attentions to her sister, Elizabeth was far from suspecting that she was herself becoming an object of some interest in the eyes of his friend. ”Oh! It's happening! • “But no sooner had he made it clear to himself and his friends that she hardly had a good feature in her face, than he began to find it was rendered uncommonly intelligent by the beautiful expression of her dark eyes. To this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying. ”Crushes develop slowly and then all at once. It’s like the Baader-Meinhof phenomenon of becoming ultra-aware of something/someone. You start seeing them in everything• “He began to wish to know more of her, and as a step towards conversing with her himself, attended to her conversation with others. ”In the movie, Darcy asking Elizabeth to dance seems to drop out nowhere, but now I see the attention to detail, like him slowly creeping near her to catch her eye• “Indeed, sir, I have not the least intention of dancing. I entreat you not to suppose that I moved this way in order to beg for a partner. ” Oh, I like this• “A lady’s imagination is very rapid; it jumps from admiration to love, from love to matrimony, in a moment. ” Only when it comes to Darcy• “If I wished to think slightingly of anybody’s children, it should not be of my own, however. ”Mrs. Bennet can be named a lot of things, but she's a fierce mother, first and foremost. • “The former was divided between admiration of the brilliancy which exercise had given to her complexion, and doubt as to the occasion’s justifying her coming so far alone. ”Oh, finally! I was in dire need to know what was circling through Darcy's mind upon Elizabeth's arrival• “I am afraid, Mr. Darcy,” observed Miss Bingley in a half whisper, “that this adventure has rather affected your admiration of her fine eyes. ”“Not at all,” he replied; “they were brightened by the exercise. ” ”hmm, really. . . . • “He immediately offered to fetch her others—all that his library afforded. “And I wish my collection were larger for your benefit and my own credit”Bingley is the only respite in this room of elites“What a delightful library you have at Pemberley, Mr. Darcy! ”“It ought to be good,” he replied, “it has been the work of many generations. ”“And then you have added so much to it yourself, you are always buying books. ”Ha! Is bingley playing matchmaker for Darcy and Elizabeth?• “Is Miss Darcy much grown since the spring?” said Miss Bingley; “will she be as tall as I am?”“I think she will. She is now about Miss Elizabeth Bennet’s height, or rather taller. ”I see you, Mr. Darcy, dropping Elizabeth’s name in any conversation to catch her attention• “All this she must possess,” added Darcy, “and to all this she must yet add something more substantial, in the improvement of her mind by extensive reading. ”*closes book*• “she had no wish of her recovering immediately, as her restoration to health would probably remove her from Netherfield. ”Interesting that this scene with Mrs. Bennet appears so soon after Darcy's remark: “Whatever bears affinity to cunning is despicable. ”• “I did not know before,” continued Bingley immediately, “that you were a studier of character. It must be an amusing study. ”“Yes, but intricate characters are the most amusing. They have at least that advantage. ”Cue Darcy walking in• “But if it be only a slight, thin sort of inclination, I am convinced that one good sonnet will starve it entirely away. ”Darcy only smiled; and the general pause which ensued made Elizabeth tremble lest her mother should be exposing herself again. ”he. . . smiled! • “But do you always write such charming long letters to her, Mr. Darcy?”“They are generally long; but whether always charming it is not for me to determine. ”men who actually care for their younger siblings>>>• “Nothing is more deceitful,” said Darcy, “than the appearance of humility. It is often only carelessness of opinion, and sometimes an indirect boast. ”The page that follows is the most Darcy has ever said• I was reading chapter 10 by myself lost in the text. So I ran back to Jennifer Ehle's narration and suddenly all confusion was cleared up. She’s p&p magic• “Elizabeth could not help observing, as she turned over some music-books that lay on the instrument, how frequently Mr. Darcy’s eyes were fixed on her. ”Oh, we know. Let me refer you to: Mr. Darcy + looking at Elizabeth• “and Darcy had never been so bewitched by any woman as he was by her. He really believed, that were it not for the inferiority of her connections, he should be in some danger. ”You start the sentence with a smile and then end with one of these:• “As for your Elizabeth’s picture, you must not have it taken, for what painter could do justice to those beautiful eyes?”“It would not be easy, indeed, to catch their expression, but their colour and shape, and the eyelashes, so remarkably fine, might be copied. ”I feel this most acutely in this scene:And can we talk a minute about how Miss Bingley is such a Regina George here, thinking that teasing Darcy about Elizabeth will reduce his interest. Mentioning Elizabeth just makes him think about her more. And referring to Elizabeth jokingly as “your lady” will just make him think about her more in that way, Einstein. • Mr. Darcy felt their rudeness, and immediately said:“This walk is not wide enough for our party. We had better go into the avenue. ”He likes arguing with Elizabeth but also sticks up for her? Get you a man that can do both• “and she removed at his desire to the other side of the fireplace, that she might be further from the door. He then sat down by her, and talked scarcely to anyone else. ”Jane and Bingley are unparalleled• “I declare after all there is no enjoyment like reading! How much sooner one tires of anything than of a book! When I have a house of my own, I shall be miserable if I have not an excellent library. ”I can’t believe this brilliant piece was delivered by Miss Bingley of all people in an attempt to impress a clueless Darcy. I do feel rather impartial to her in those moments when she's trying so hard to be in favor with him and he pays her no mind. I guess that's one theme that survives the ages. • “Miss Bingley succeeded no less in the real object of her civility; Mr. Darcy looked up. He was as much awake to the novelty of attention in that quarter as Elizabeth herself could be, and unconsciously closed his book. ”when *closes book* makes a comeback. . . it's serious• “if the first, I would be completely in your way, and if the second, I can admire you much better as I sit by the fire. ”I can just imagine his smug smile. . . • “My good opinion once lost is lost forever. ”I can hear the echo of Matthew Macfadyen's voice in P&P 2005• “He began to feel the danger of paying Elizabeth too much attention. ”Let me know if I did anyone's English homework with this thread. Don't forget to tag along and snatch your copy of this beautiful watercolor copy here: And be sure to check out bookspoils. com for my full review.

I read P & P so many times, I practically knew the words by heart at one point! Persuasion and Pride and Prejudice are tied for first place in my affections. Elizabeth was such a strong, unrepentant Badass! I totally wanted to be Elizabeth when I grew up. When my niece groaned about having to read this book in high school, I lent her the 1995 adaptation staring Jennifer Ehle and Colin Firth. I didn't think anyone could match that outstanding adaptation, but I have to admit that I was also captivated by the 2005 Kiera Knightly version directed by Joe Wright. Jane Austen was my idol in my teens. (Still is! )

This is not a women’s book. Or if the 429 users who have shelved this book as “Chick Lit” are right, then color me Summer’s Eve because this book gets ALL THE STARS. I’m not sure that I could adequately express what I loved best about Pride and Prejudice, because there are so many things. The writing, for one, is superb. There is a flawless eloquence to Austen’s writing whereby every situation, every thought, every turn of phrase is delivered gracefully, yet with the greatest exactitude. Clunkiness does not exist here. Second, and perhaps even more compelling, are her characters. Each of them is drawn fully and completely, with qualities unique to the individual. You could, theoretically, engage in brief conversation with any of them, and without presupposing who they were, be able to identify them as this or that character based solely on account of their speech and mannerism. I wonder if people realize how difficult an undertaking that is for an author, and in my opinion it is what reveals Austen to be as accomplished a writer as I am giving her credit for. I have in the past heard this book described as a “novel of manners,” being predominantly about polite society and taking place predominantly in the drawing rooms of the landed gentry. And while I do not dispute this description, I would be hesitant to depend on it for fear of being too dismissive. Yes, this novel details the lifestyles of the well-to-do in pre-Victorian England, but it is also much more than that. It brings us characters and situations we can relate to now, in 2014. Elizabeth Bennet, a remarkable character in her own right, is aware of her rank and social standing, yet well enough adjusted to it to consider it with lesser importance than she considers other things—things like dignity, self-respect, and the treatment of others without regard to their station. She no more treats her inferiors with disdain than makes allowances for the ill behavior of the wealthy. In many ways, she’s the kind of character we’d all like to emulate, or pretend we do emulate (even though we probably don’t because most of us are assholes). And Elizabeth is self-aware. She recognizes her own failings and makes attempts to mitigate them where she can. In the end it’s Elizabeth who is responsible for this book enjoying the longevity that it does, and for the fact that modern readers find it still relevant to them. I think that is very refreshing, and that I just called a 200 year-old novel “refreshing” is in itself refreshing. But wait, there’s more! This book is loaded with humor. Austen is very subtle about it, too, but I believe her to be chiding her characters in a way that endears us to them, and I say this even about the ones we are to find reproachable. Mrs. Bennet, universally derided as ignorant and frivolous is still, at the heart of all things, a mother who wants the best for her children, though maybe not always going about it the best way. Mr. Collins, a buffoon of a man, is to a certain degree hilarious in his buffoonishness. We read his letters to the Bennet family without being able to suppress a smirk for the outrageousness of his imprudence. And even Elizabeth herself, in her manner of addressing Mr. Darcy during those occasions she believes him to be arrogant or haughty, is amusing, and we imagine Darcy to be likewise amused by her sharp tongue and curt words. I may have rejected this novel as one primarily intended for the female audience, but I am not so obstinate as to refuse to submit to its being a romance novel. It is a romance novel. And guess what? I loved it. Austen relates to us the growing esteem that two flawed people have for each other and she does it in a way that never betrays their characters. Everything that happens, happens as a result—direct or indirect—of the nature and disposition of these two characters, and yes, I did think it beautiful.

It is a truth universally acknowledged, that any reader of this book, in possession of a good intellect, must fall forever more in love with Mr Darcy.
