Each chapter is rated out of ten for difficulty, obscenity, general mindblowing brilliance and beauty of language.Note : if you're after my short course bluffer's guide to ulysses, here it is :http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...But now... the real thing. ******************* 1. Telemachus. Difficulty : 0 Obscenity: 0 General mindblowing brilliance : 8 Beauty of language : 7 Stephen the morose ex-student isn't enjoying life. Lots of brittle dialogue, mainly from motormouth blasphemer Buck Mulligan. Breakfast. An old crone delivers milk (this was before 24 hour Tescos). A modicum of swimming. Sea described as snotgreen. 2. Nestor. Difficulty : 0 General mindblowing brilliance : 8 Obscenity : 0 Beauty of language : 7 Stephen is teaching history. He has a crap job as a part time teacher because he doesn't know what to do with his life. i can sympathise with that, I still don't. His pupils are mostly eager and polite so God knows how he'd get on in today's hellhole classrooms. Anyway he gets paid and his boss the pompous old git Deasey gives him a letter about foot and mouth disease to give to somebody else which Stephen couldn't give a flying fish about. He mooches off. 3. Proteus Difficulty : 9 General mindblowing brilliance : 10 Obscenity: 2 (there's some nosepicking and urination) Beauty of language : 10 Now we get emo Steve trudging along the beach on his way to get a few pints down him, and now the Stream of the Consciousness starts up and gushes and torrents all over the place. And it's all stunningly beautiful. If I was a genius this is exactly how I'd think too. This may be my favourite chapter. May Stephen mooch about forever. Mooch on! 4. Calypso. Difficulty : 5 (now we are getting used to the S of C and Bloom's S is so much easier than Stephen's S - although also a great deal less lovely) General mindblowing brilliance : 5 Obscenity : 8 Beauty of language : 3 We jump back to breakfast time and enter the house and mind of Leopold Bloom who's rustling up some breakfast for himself and his dear lady wife. As we are moseying along in Bloom's brain, accompanying him on his trip to the butchers, suddenly out of nowhere we get the c word - and it really isn't anything but a train of thought. Joyce could have included another stray thought. But no. Joyce was completely committed to the truthfulness of his technique and also convinced of his own genius too. Still, it comes as a shock. Later we trip down Bloom's garden to his outside toilet where he has a pleasant bowel movement: "that slight constipation of yesterday quite gone. Hope it's not too big bring on piles again. No, just right." I mean, Jimmy, is this really necessary? But of course, in Ulysses, it is. The obscenity they found in Ulysses was mostly the disgustingness of minute descriptions of ordinary activities. In movies people never ever used to go to the toilet. Now they do it all the time - what was the first toilet scene in a movie? You could write a list of 20 great toilet scenes. (Contributions welcome.) It must be said that Bloom's mind is cram-ful of bits and bobs about his own life which are never explained, you just have to pick them up and piece them together if you can be arsed. But for instance Bloom is trying very hard not to think that Molly will be meeting Blazes Boylan in the afternoon and will probably be going to bed with him. It's one of those he-knows-but-does-she-know-he-knows situations. So, all in all, a very uncomfortable chapter. Oh, since you asked, I just went to my own toilet for the very same Bloomesque purposes - but not being Joyce, I'm not going to tell you anything further. But it was okay! Thanks for asking! 5. The Lotus Eaters. Difficulty : 4 Obscenity: 4 (see below) General mindblowing brilliance : 2 Beauty of language : 2 There's a couple of tedious chapters of Ulysses, it must be confessed (aside from the chapter that's deliberately boring!) and this is one. Bloom is off on his rambling day, meets a couple of coves, visits a chemist and then a public bath (this was before the days of houses having bathrooms! Imagine that!). We get a lot of this kind of stuff - (Bloom is at the chemists): Living all the day among herbs, ointments, disinfectants. All his alabaster lilypots. Mortar and pestle. Aq. Dist. Fol. Laur. Te Virid. Smell almost cure you like the dentist's doorbell. Doctor whack. He ought to physic himself a bit. Electuary or emulsion. The first fellow that picked an herb to cure himself had a bit of pluck. Simples. Want to be careful. Enough stuff here to chloroform you. Test: turns blue litmus paper red. Chloroform. Overdose of laudanum. Sleeping draughts. Lovephiltres. Paragoric poppysyrup bad for cough. Clogs the pores or the phlegm. Poisons the only cures. Remedy where you least expect it. Clever of nature. I might have to agree with critics of Ulysses here - I don't need every scrap of word association and mental flotsam that swishes through Bloom's bumbling brain. But Joyce thinks I do! The obscenity in this chapter is here: Time to get a bath round the corner. Hammam. Turkish. Massage. Dirt gets rolled up in your navel. Nicer if a nice girl did it. Also I think I. Yes I. Do it in the bath. Curious longing I. Water to water. Combine business with pleasure. and here (he's in the bath now) [Bloom:] saw the dark tangled curls of his bush floating, floating hair of the stream around the limp father of thousands, a languid floating flower. Well... Bloom pleasures himself but you must say it's rather delicately put, no? (Another list please : greatest masturbation scenes in literature without mentioning Philip Roth!) 6. Hades. Difficulty : 3 Obscenity: 2* General mindblowing brilliance : 2 Beauty of language : 3 Another chapter I'm not a fan of because we're stuck mostly inside the brain of Bloom who's full of Readers Digest tips and quips and boring "I wonder if" and Molly this and Milly that. The Homeric parallels : yes, well, he goes to a funeral and thinks about death and rotting and such, so that's Hades. Helen's friend Eleanor is living with us at the moment and she CLAIMED to have read Ulysses as part of a course on epics but when pressed admitted that she had SKIMMED it and didn't like it much to which I said "Skimmed? SKIMMED? You can't skim the greatest modernist work of literature in English! Faugh! Crivens! Help ma Bob! I think I'm coming down with the apoplexy so I am!" Even the tedious chapters, of which this is one, have to be read word by word, line by line. * the only trace of rudeness I could find in hades was this - Bloom is thinking about precisely when his son (deceased) was conceived: "Must have been that morning in Raymond terrace she was at the window watching the two dogs at it by the wall... Give us a touch, Poldy. God, I'm dying for it. How life begins." To readers of 2010 it all seems somewhat coarse, yes, but to readers of the 1920s these stray remarks were incendiary. However I would like to complain about this otherwise handsome Modern Library hardback edition I'm reading. This is one of the two available hardbacks of Ulysses and it comes wreathed with introductions, blurbs and reprints of judicial decisions all of which are entirely to do with the alleged obscenity of the book. Hence I thought I would reread it partly with that in mind. But really, who cares any more about that? Get rid of all this stuff. Let's have an introduction all about the crackle and the pity and the joy and fire of this bizarre book. * 7. Aeolus. Difficulty : 5 Obscenity: 0 General mindblowing brilliance : 2 Beauty of language : 3 Oh dear - do I actually like this damned masterpiece at all? Another tiresome chapter full of huffy snippy geezers sniping and out-quoting and oneupmanshipping each other. Next! Quick!Review continues herehttp://www.goodreads.com/story/show/2...

5 stars because it's a work of genius, so everyone says.4 stars because it has so many deep literary and classical references that to say one understood the book, is like saying one is very well educated.3 stars because the words, strung together in a stream-of-consciousness mellifluous, onomatopoeic way, read just beautifully.2 stars because it was boring as hell. I just couldn't care less about the characters, I just wanted them to get on with whatever they were doing and have Joyce interfere in their lives with his references, his poetry, and his mellifluous whathavewehere considerably less.1 star because I had to give it up. It got wet when I dropped it in the bath and the pages stuck together when I dried it out. Since it wasn't exactly cheap to start with and there wasn't another copy in the island bookshop (mine), I had no choice but to give it up.........Or at least that's my story and I'm sticking to it............Or it would have been if I hadn't had the audio book.Reviewed 28 May, 2011

Life is too short to read Ulysses.

I Can't do it, It fell in my toilet and didn't dry well, and I'm accepting it as an act of god. I decided against burning it, and just threw it out.Yes, I am a horrible person.

I have read Ulysses at least three or four times (and once with Gilbert Stuart's authorised translation) and always found unsounded depths that I had not suspected. Every chapter introduces new narrative techniques, new perspectives and characters, and new voices. This is a book that definitely requires some homework to fully appreciate. I would recommend the aforementioned Gilbert Stuart commentary and biography, the Frank Budgen criticism, and especially the classic Richard Ellman biography. There is precious little here not to love regardless of your literary tastes, but like most good things, this book asks you to work for it. As Leopold Bloom goes through this day in Dublin, all kinds of things are happening all around him and it is a virtual reality experience in four dimensions - ending with for me one of the most beautiful chapters ever written, the stream of conscious dialog of Bloom's wife posing as Ulysses' Penelope. It is of such texture and voluptuousness that it is impossible to capture without first hand experience of having read it. If you put forward one personal challenge for a great summer read, make it Ulysses!I was recently in Dublin and spent a good 30 cold minutes with a strong wind on the turret where Buck Mulligan has his shave in Chapter 1 - amazing! I cannot even begin to express how this book moves me. When I get the classic GR question when friending "what is your favorite book and why?", I always answer "Ulysses, because I learn more about myself everytime I read it!"Most difficult books I have ever read (but which also gave me the most pleasure: Ulysses by James Joyce  La Recherche du Temps Perdu by Marcel Proust  Infinite Jest by DFW  Gravity's Rainbow by Thomas Pynchon  Underworld by Don DeLillo

"He puesto tantos enigmas y puzzles que van a mantener ocupados a los catedráticos durante siglos debatiendo sobre lo que yo quería decir, y esta es la única manera de asegurarme la inmortalidad." James JoyceUn tour-de-force literario. No tengo otra manera de describir el proceso de lectura que me deparó el "Ulises". Ha sido la prueba más dura, compleja y reveladora a la que me sometí con un libro (hasta que choqué con su “Finnegans Wake”), pero a la vez, una magnífica experiencia que nunca olvidaré. Me siento orgulloso de haber leído todo el libro disfrutando de la literatura sin tratar de entenderlo, sino de "vivirlo". Borges no lo pudo terminar (sin que con esto me crea que supero en algo a semejante maestro, pongo en consideración que "Ulises" no es fácil de abordar). Amado, querido y respetado por muchos escritores (Orwell, Nabokov, Elliot, Banville, Faulkner, Pound) y denostado, odiado, destrozado por otros (Woolf, Borges, D.H. Lawrence), es un libro pesado, denso, inabarcable, ampuloso, que da miedo y que pareciera estar hecho para leerlo con la mente extraordinariamente abierta. Cuando lo leí por primera vez mi camino por sus páginas ha sido arduo. Very difficult.Este libro se tornó por momentos asfixiante, desesperante, hilarante, hartante, errante y todo aquello que termine en –ante. Es imposible querer tener la historia bien ordenada en la cabeza a medida que se la lee, porque es un libro que se presenta en forma caótica y desordenada y eso es lo que hace que el lector desista de avanzar luego de las primera cincuenta o cien páginas, dependiendo de qué resistencia aplique para persistir en la lectura antes de tirar la toalla. Es así de simple: "Ulises" es un libro que se encara y se lo lee poniéndole (no hay que negarlo) mucha garra y corazón. Por mi parte, traté de informarme de qué manera estaba estructurado, es decir, de que se compone de tres partes (Telemaquía, Odisea y Nostos) que a su vez contienen dieciocho capítulos y que todos ellos tienen relación con La Odisea de Homero, libro que le agradezco a Zeus de todo corazón haber leído para poder orientarme a los largo de las casi setecientas páginas que componen este ladrillo literario.Era fundamental saber que Leopoldo Bloom y Ulises realizan sus viajes odiseicos de manera similar con la diferencia que todo lo que sucede en "Ulises" pasa en sólo un día en la vida de Leopoldo Bloom (Ulises), Stephen Dedalus (Telémaco) y Molly Bloom (Penélope). Todo el libro sucede el 16 de junio de 1904.No estoy de acuerdo con los que pregonan que para leer "Ulises" debemos conocernos Dublin como la palma de nuestra mano pero sí es de una gran ayuda el hecho de haber leído La Odisea. Confieso que tuve que anotarme algunas cosas puesto que de otra manera hubiera sido imposible para mí entender una sola frase y esto no significa que haga trampa o me imponga un auto-spoiler para evitarme inconvenientes de comprensión literaria, pero es necesario para afrontar la densa literatura que encierra el libro.Como comentara previamente y para aquellos que no lo hayan leído y me temo que son muchos (muchos) cada capítulo hace referencia o alegoría a algo de la Odisea, como pueden ser personajes, personajes mitológicos o situaciones que vive Ulises en su epopeya homérica y para ello, Joyce despliega su enorme potencial de manera titánica. Por ejemplo el capítulo 6 se denomina "Hades" porque ese descenso al mundo de los muertos concuerda con el de Leopoldo Bloom al cementerio para despedir a su viejo amigo Dignam. El episodio 11 corresponde a las Sirenas y está totalmente emparentado con la música y el embelesamiento por parte de Bloom con dos meseras mientras un barítono canta entre las mesas.Cuando Bloom regresa a casa después de veinticuatro agotadoras horas, leemos lo que sucede en un capítulo llamado "Ítaca", al igual que Ulises en La Odisea. De esta manera uno va “entendiendo” para qué lado va la historia. Sin algo de esa información leve pero importante, la lectura se torna errática, enloquecedora o simplemente se pierde el interés.El capítulo 15, atribuido a Circe transcurre completamente dentro de un burdel en el que Bloom y Dedalus se ven rodeados de los personajes más extraños de los bajos dublineses y está escrito por Joyce como un guión completo de teatro, con instrucciones de escenario incluidas. Este capítulo ha sido uno de los más desesperantes para mí cuando leí el libro por primera vez. La segunda lectura fue de una diversión hilarante, carcajadas incluidas. Es más, creo que la impecable y lúcida traducción de Marcelo Zabaloy despeja una gran cantidad de términos mal captados por el traductor anterior, José Salas Subirat, de quien leí "Ulises" previamente allanando conflictos de lectura para hacerla mucho más entendible y hasta disfrutable.En la primera lectura hubo un momento en el que casi sucumbí, puesto que se tornaba completamente incomprensible para mí, ya que es un bombardeo constante de frases, palabras y diálogos inconexos, sin sentido ni construcción sintáctica o semántica. Un enloquecedor torbellino que golpea al lector como una ametralladora que dispara palabras sin cesar. Un auténtico infierno. Lo que pasa es que estamos hablando de un libro que posee en su idioma original más de 267.000 palabras y cerca de 30.000 vocablos, muchos de ellos de propia invención del autor. El libro posee texto en inglés, español, hebreo (Bloom es judío), latín, francés, italiano, hindú, nonsense joyceano y palabras completamente inentendibles producto de la creación literaria de Joyce que llevará a un extremo enloquecedor en “Finnegans Wake”.En “Ulises” podemos encontrarnos con capítulos de narrativa tradicional como es el caso del capítulo 2 ("Néstor"), pero de a poco, todo comenzará a tornarse en textualidad apabullante, sobredimensionada y desbordante. A lo largo de esta historia desfilarán ante nuestros ojos, parodias de la novela romántica al estilo de los folletines del sigo XIX ("Nausícaa", capítulo 13), abundantes pasajes de poesía, canciones populares y tradicionales irlandesas, un capítulo completo escrito en pequeños fragmentos de estilo periodístico ("Eolo", capítulo 7), hay incontables ejemplos de simbología mitológica, bíblica y alegórica. En el capítulo 9, "Escila y Caribdis", Stephen Dedalus explica su propia teoría acerca de Shakespeare y Hamlet: "Por medio del álgebra demuestra que el nieto de Hamlet es el abuelo de Shakespeare, y que él mismo es el espectro de su propio padre". La sumisión, idolatría y homenaje de Joyce a Shakespeare es total y el bardo será nombrado y alabado en distintas partes del libro ("Después de Dios, Shakespeare es el que más ha creado.", afirma por allí Stephen Dédalus), aunque también descubriremos referencias y cálidas palabras sobre Oscar Wilde, Charles Dickens, Thomas Carlyle y Daniel Defoe entre otros.El anteúltimo capítulo, Ítaca, era su preferido del libro (y el de Bernard Shaw), cuando Bloom llega finalmente a su casa está escrito en forma enciclopédica con preguntas y definiciones de alto contenido científico, poblado de párrafos inagotables, repletos de datos estadísticos y que a mi entender se relaciona con la singularización o desautomatización textual, un concepto literario que los formalistas rusos (Schklovsky) definían como el "Arte como artificio": "La finalidad del arte es dar una sensación del objeto como visión y no como reconocimiento, los procedimientos del arte son el de singularización de los objetos, y el que consiste en oscurecer la forma, en aumentar la dificultad y la duración de la percepción. El acto de percepción es en arte un fin en sí y debe ser prolongado. El arte es un medio de experimentar el devenir del objeto: lo que ya está “realizado” no interesa para el arte". Eso es lo que creo que Joyce utiliza en este capítulo. El no dice que "Llenó con agua la pava". Dice "Pasó la cacerola a la hornalla de la izquierda, y levantándose llevó la pava de hierro a la pileta con el fin de hacer fluir la corriente de agua abriendo la canilla para dejarla salir". De eso se trata "aumentar la dificultad y la duración de la percepción".Por último en el capítulo 18 y final, "Penélope", no encontraremos con la gran innovación de James Joyce en la literatura: el "Stream of conciousness", también denominado "monólogo interior" (aunque también lo realiza Stephen Dedalus en el capítulo 3), y que para enunciarlo correctamente transcribo su definición como "corriente de la conciencia" que consiste en expresar los pensamientos del personaje sin una secuencia lógica, como ocurre en el pensamiento real. La culminación de esta técnica narrativa es el epílogo de la novela, el famoso monólogo de Molly Bloom, en el que el relato, sin signos de puntuación, emula el fluir, libre y desinhibido, del pensamiento".Personalmente creo que más allá de esta invención literaria, ninguna persona en su sano juicio puede estar divagando como lo hace Molly durante ocho eternas oraciones que ocupan las últimas cuarenta páginas (¡40!) del libro sin freno ni la utilización de una sola coma.Finalmente "Ulises" es un mapa completo de la ciudad de Dublin. Toda la esencia de Irlanda está en esa ciudad y Joyce la lleva al detalle como si fuera una mezcla de guía turístico y cartógrafo profesional. Alguna vez supo decir que si Dublin desapareciera de manera catastrófica, esta ciudad podría ser reconstruida a partir de su libro y no se equivocó en absoluto.Me siento verdaderamente contento y orgulloso de esta fructífera relectura de este libro enorme, monstruoso, genial, único, inclasificable y eterno que es el "Ulises" de James Joyce y más aún por haberlo leído completo y sin saltearme una sola palabra en 12 días.Carlos Gamerro, escritor argentino y experto en la obra joyceana y que escribió uno fundamental llamado "Ulises: claves de lectura" dice que nada vuelve a ser lo mismo a partir de leer el "Ulises" y es verdad. Que uno puede no haber leído un libro de un autor pero puede apoyarse en otros, pero que esto no sucede con el Ulises, ya que es un libro que no se parece a ningún otro.El modo de ver la literatura y el mundo cambian a partir de que uno lee esta obra de arte, puesto que no se la puede denominar de otra manera. Y James Joyce lo hizo posible.dixit.

Sometimes reading a Great Work of Literature is like drinking fine French wine, say an aged Burgundy or Mersault. Everyone tells you how amazing it is, and on an intellectual level you can appreciate the brilliance, the subtlety, the refinement. But really it is too refined. It is unapproachable, it is aloof, it doesn't go with thatketchupy burger you're having for dinner. You're not enjoying it.But then you read the label more closely and realize that although it tastes just like a fine burgundy your wine was made in the Abarca Hills of Chile. It is from Casa Marin and was in fact not made by a snooty Frenchman with a degree in oenology but by a down-to-earth woman farmer, and although it is sophisticated and complex there is a more accessible note, a friendliness... And perhaps more importantly, it is several percent higher in alcohol than that French wine youthought you had, and by the time you're halfway through the bottle it really seems pretty likeable after all, you and the wine are getting along just fine and you are having an enthusiastic discussion ofliterature with people who were strangers an hour ago, and one of them tells a dirty joke that Joyce would have sniggered at, and you laugh so hard you spill your wine on him, and maybe he's a little annoyedbut your host brings a towel and another bottle and the party isgreat. And maybe you are a wine ignoramus and the fancy bottle was kind of wasted on you, but you enjoyed it, so -- so what?

I did it. I finished it. And it was everything everyone said it would be: difficult, infuriating, brilliant, insane, genius, painful, etc. You get the idea, I'm sure. I can't even rate it. How do you rate a book that left you wide-eyed with awe at the author's brilliance, yet simultaneously made you want to bring him back to life just so you could kill him?

When asked to explain Ulysses James Joyce humbly replied: “I’ve put in so many enigmas and puzzles that it will keep the professors busy for centuries arguing over what I meant, and that’s the only way of ensuring one’s immortality.”But I meekly dare to believe Ulysses wasn’t created simply to intimidate and torture philologists for there is a clever thought or two in the book after all.The preparation of breakfast (burnt offering): intestinal congestion and premeditative defecation (holy of holies): the bath (rite of John): the funeral (rite of Samuel): the advertisement of Alexander Keyes (Urim and Thummin): the unsubstantial lunch (rite of Melchizedek): the visit to museum and national library (holy place)…Any quotidian life is a succession of rituals and subconscious worshipping of the deities unknown…Hold to the now, the here, through which all future plunges to the past.To live a day in life is as long a journey as the odyssey and as long a tale as the bible.

“Stately, plump Buck Mulligan came from the stairhead, bearing a bowl of lather on which a mirror and a razor lay crossed.”Ulysses ~~ James JoyceI have never had so many starts, false starts, and restarts with a novel in my entire life. But it was worth every effort made to read this amazing book.My Goodreads friend, zxvasdf, once said to me, "You'll always be far from finishing, even when you finish it. I don't think anyone can really appreciate Joyce's work in its entirety if they're not Joyce themselves; there'll always be mysteries abound." He's 100% right. Upon closing the cover, my first inclination was to go back to the beginning and read the first section all over again. Then I thought, no I should dive directly into A Portrait of the Artist As a Young Man. Ultimately, I decided I need to step away from James Joyce and digest Ulysses for a few months.Joyce's Ulysses has been called the most important novel in all of modern literature, and, it is. Joyce burst the traditional form of the novel wide open. Yes, Ulysses is a radical departure from the traditional novels of the past. Joyce brilliantly married modern literature to classical literature in the pages of Ulysses.Am I gushing? Of course I am, but Ulysses is a novel that deserves being gushed over.Friends on Goodreads have mentioned to me that they hope I will explain Ulysses to them with my review. Sorry, I wish I could, but I am unable to do so. Honestly, I don't know if anyone can. I doubt that few people understand and comprehend Ulysses, and that's exactly what James Joyce wanted. He set about to confuse and disorient scholars for 100's of years. But oh what a wonderful state of confusion it is to inhabit ... I have to touch for a moment upon PENELOPE before I end this non-review. I believe this final chapter, Molly Bloom's Soliloquy to be the single greatest piece of writing I have ever encountered. I've never read anything like this. Molly's soliloquy ties all of Ulysses together. While reading this brilliant piece of writing, 76 pages in the edition I read with no punctuation, I had several aha moments. I gained deep insight into both Leopold and Stephen's characters. Not everyone will agree with my conclusions, and perhaps Joyce has played a cosmic joke on me well.Molly's Soliloquy is a piece of writing that I will revisit as a stand alone piece of writing many times. Just as I read Charles Dickens annually, I will now read Molly's Soliloquy every Bloomsday. It is an amazing piece of writing; one that will enthrall me for years to come. In the end, it is actually Molly's voice that is the most powerful in the pages of Ulysses. Ending Ulysses with Molly's Soliloquy is truly orgasmic.In the end, Ulysses is about all of humanity. It is about a city and her people, about eating and drinking and fucking. It is about our memories, our joys and sorrows. Ulysses is about life. All our lives.What is there left to say? Ulysses is the most challenging of novels. Should you read it? By all means, yes. It is a glorious literary adventure. And if you don't make it thru the first time, go back and try again. You will not be disappointed.

How do you read Ulysses? Well you begin on page one and you read all the words until it's finished.Or, you can just be Irish.I think that's the secret. I've just finished Ulysses for the second time and I cannot recall any other book that's just as fun as Ulysses is. People will often call the novel difficult and challenging but that's a reading I just cannot abide by. I don't find Ulysses to be a particularly difficult novel to read. I actually struggle a lot more with other modernist writers, specifically Woolf and Lawrence. The two times I've read Ulysses I've done it quicker than it took me to get through Lady Chatterley's Lover.So I began questioning myself as to why this is. And I think the answers lays within who I actually am. I'm Irish.Joyce once said that if Dublin were to one day suddenly disappear from the Earth it could be entirely reconstructed from his book. And it is true that Joyce takes great pleasure in describing almost every step that Bloom takes. But then I think how, if you don't have a fairly solid familiarity with the streets of Dublin, not many of Bloom's journeys make sense. So, say that Bloom walks along Grafton Street from the Trinity side and goes left along Duke St., onto Dawson St., goes up to Molesworth St. and finds himself outside the Dail on Kildare St. To Joyce, and myself, that journey makes perfect sense in our heads and we can easily follow it because we both have walked that exact route many times. However, to someone who doesn't know Dublin, literally none of that made any sense. All of Ulysses is like this.Another example would be one of the many moments in the novel that made me audibly laugh. It's during the Circe episode which is this massive hallucination sequence that's written in play form. At one point the sound of a waterfall is heard and Joyce records its noise like this:The waterfall: Poulaphouca Poulaphouca Poulaphouca Poulaphouca.Get it? What? You mean you don't have a knowledge of the waterfalls of Ireland? Once again, all of Ulysses is like this.So why do I get all the references? Why do I find this novel so funny? Why didn't I want it to end and will likely read it again and again for my whole life? Am I so intellectually above all of you that only I, the great Barry, could understand all of Ulysses? No. It's cos I'm Irish.If you flick through an annotated edition of Ulysses you'll notice all the footnotes are simply just explaining the references. They're full of little explainers of who Michael Davitt was or Arthur Griffith or Charles Stewart Parnell. What a crubeen is and what's double X. What the Phoenix Park murders were and who the croppy boy is. Notes of which I need none, because I know all this, because I'm Irish. Ulysses is an Irish novel written by an Irish man for Irish people. Joyce steeped the whole thing in such Irishness that many of the dialects, the turns of phrase, the references, and the places make little sense to non-Irish people. The non-Irish in turn have to purchase massive annotated editions and reference guides in order to slowly trudge their way through the pages that Irish people wouldn't even have to pause on. It's from these non-Irish that we always hear that Ulysses is the most difficult novel.So if you aren't Irish and you tried to conquer Ulysses and you couldn't, don't feel bad, the book wasn't written for you. However, for us Irish, for whom Ulysses is our plaything, we'll keep holding it to our hearts forever.

Often considered one of the ‘greatest novel of the 20th century’, James Joyce’s masterpiece, Ulysses, is both a feat and feast of sheer literary brilliance. Reimagining Homer’s epic poem The Odyssey as the travels and trials of an everyday man through the crowded streets and pubs of Dublin, Joyce weaves strikingly versatile prose styles and varying perspectives to encompass the whole of life within the hours of a single standard day, June 16th, 1904. This day, dubbed Bloomsday, is celebrated with increasing popularity in modern times, which is a testament to the lasting greatness of the novel (and to the desire to drink and be merry of all people). Instead of taking a daily life and elevating it to mythical proportions, Joyce has taken mythology and reversed it, shrinking it into an average day, which in turn gives each character and action a heroic sense about them. In this way, even besting a drunken nationalist spewing anti-sematic sentiments at a bar can be seen as a legendary conquest. Ulysses is an epic in its own right, setting the bar for literature up to the stratosphere as we immerse ourselves in Joyce’s dear dirty Dublin.While one must have their wits about them to navigate this laborious labyrinth of literature, the task is highly rewarding. It is very understandable that so many people do not finish this novel, or just plain dislike it; this book can be downright frustrating. Combining the heavy use of cryptic and dated allusions, obfuscating narration, an enviable vocabulary and pages of dense prose to decipher, Joyce intentionally set out to create a literary odyssey of words to conquer saying ‘I’ve put in so many enigmas and puzzles that it will keep the professors busy for centuries arguing over what I meant, and that’s the only way of ensuring one’s immortality.’ Readers should be warned this is a tough novel. Often times this novel inspired such frustration that it was tempting to slam the cover for good, and it wasn’t until the second half that I was finally able to recognize that this novel had written its way into my heart. Upon reflecting back after completion, only then did I realize that this truly is one of the greatest books ever written and I have come to love it. Perhaps this is akin to the feeling those who run marathons or climb mountains feel; the adventure is a long, arduous struggle where one must keep focus and positive to battle through, yet the pride and elation of completion more than makes up for the struggles. I do not wish to make this book seem like it is only for masochists though, as there are more than enough rewards to reap along the way. This is some of the finest displays of writing I have ever encountered, and offers a broad range of style. Many people fail to mention that this book is downright funny as well. There are countless little jokes, such as characters running from a bar so they can fart loudly unheard, endless sexual jokes and quips, and many funny characterizations. It should be noted as well that there is no shame in seeking aide for this book. Originally I didn’t want to, but there are so many esoteric allusions and puzzles that an annotation guide and a few essays really helped my understanding. This is a novel to teach to yourself, not just read – there are people who spent years at universities digging through this book and it is still widely debated. Even the great Ulysses (or Odysseus depending on who your asking) had to seek aide in his epic journey.The variety of style in this book is highly impressive. Each of the 18 chapters, aside from being thematically built around a corresponding episode of The Odyssey, has its own unique set of techniques and lexicon, often parodying the styles of newspapers or current women’s magazines, traditional Irish mythological styles, a chapter dissolving the world into scientific properties, the famous stream-of-consciousness, 200 pages of jocular hallucinations in play format, and a dizzying array of prose from flowery language to the language of flowers. Joyce had such a love of style that there is even an entire chapter devoted to alternating writing styles as he parodies many famous authors throughout history (calling all fans of David Mitchell or If on a winter's night a traveler) in a swirling scene of drunken debates. The language is often quite playful, lyrical and full of puns. He even uses sentence structure to convey motion, such as Gerty’s limp: ‘Tight boots? No. She’s lame! O!’. If just for the use of language alone, this is one of the most spectacular books ever written and practically killed my dictionary. Also, it is interesting that C.G. Jung diagnosed Joyce as having schizophrenia based on reading this book due to the rapidly changing styles and the use of playful rhyming and jangling speech. Joyce's daughter did in fact have schizophrenia.One of Ulysses most discussed features is Joyce's technique of placing the reader within the minds of the characters. It is not a typical first person narration, however, as the characters are seemingly unaffected and unaware they have a reader riding along in their thoughts. Information comes across in broken and random spurts, and Joyce does not bother with clarifying these thoughts to the reader. Much like William Faulkner, Joyce leaves the reader unaided to piece together his massive puzzle. Often the subject of a thought can switch between several people without any indication, as with Boylan and Bloom in Molly’s soliloquy, and many chapters take pages to realize who the person speaking is. While initially following Stephen and then Bloom second by second through their routine, the novel soon fractures into smaller chunks of concurrent narration, to further fit all of life within the day and to offer a broader, more varied perspective on the events that transpire. The idea of the ‘parallax’, which is essentially a scientific term that different perspectives will have a uniquely different view of the same object, is often on Bloom’s mind, and is a major theme running through this novel. Through the multiple points of view, the reader is flooded with alternative, and often conflicting, images of the characters. The readers must then decide themselves what is the whole picture.The various speakers are another testament to the versatility of the pen employed by Joyce. Each speaker has a drastically different tone and vocabulary, as well as structure (most notably Molly). There are times when the reader may wonder if Joyce’s opinions on the Jewish people and women may be rather negative, but then he will surprise you with a completely opposing statement. Women, and sexuality in general, are a major topic in this novel, and it is no surprise many have dismissed Joyce as a misogynist as many of the women in this novel are viewed strictly in regards to their sexuality. There are many female roles who are only used to further this idea, often by having many characters be prostitues. Through Bloom we see an unapologetic image of women as a sexual objects, and a male opinion on how women view sexuality. However, with Molly, Joyce offers a highly contrasted opinion on how women view their own sexuality, how women view men’s sexuality, and even how women view how men view women’s sexuality. Molly even fantasizes about having a penis and what it would be like to mount a woman. So while some ideas may be offensive to a reader, they must view it with an open mind and in the context of the novel and characters. Also, Joyce was aware of the overzealous censorship of novels in England and America and often wrote passages that blew past the lines intentionally to irk these censors. No wonder the novel was banned in American until 1934 when the Supreme Court over-turned the ruling in a landmark obscenity trial.Shakespeare’s Hamlet plays just as much of a role in this novel as the Odyssey. This further emphasizes the parallax, and Joyce’s goal to keep the life of his characters grounded in reality by not aligning any of the characters in a clear cut way. Hamlet is often discussed amongst the intelligentsia of Dublin, and a critical scene involves Stephen’s interpretation of the play revealing many themes of the novel at hand. From the ideas of Stephen’s role as Telemachus searching for a surrogate father in Bloom’s Ulysses as well as the ongoing thoughts over adultery all reveal themselves early on through Stephen’s lecture on Hamlet. However, this scene also demonstrates that Stephen is a Hamlet figure as well as Bloom being a figure of the deceased King, and that Molly may also fit the role of the betraying Queen as well as Penelope. There are many other roles in this novel that have more than one character that could fill them, such as how both Buck Mulligan and Blazes Boylan are both ‘usurpers’. It is interesting to note here that many of the characters, Mulligan in particular, are based from people Joyce interacted with in real life. ‘The supreme question about a work of art is out of how deep a life does it spring.’, is said at a timely manner when Stephen explores how the characters of Hamlet all correspond to Shakespeare’s own family, much like how these characters correspond to those around Bloom and to those that were surrounding Joyce. Stephen is also highly representative of Joyce himself. He was the hero of Joyce’s semi-autobiographical novel A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, and in this novel we see him continue his quest of artistry. He even sides with an unborn child in a debate over whether a mother or child’s life is more important during birth, signifying his ideas that art, something we create, is of the utmost importance. A touch of metafiction as well as a compounding use of themes is one of the many ways this book stole my heart.Joyce avoids distinct lines anywhere he can with this novel. Characters such as Bloom are walking contradictions and a paradox to those around him. He is Jewish, but also baptized. He is a father figure, but also displays many motherly traits and desires causing the more masculine characters to harbor a bit of disdain for him for being rather ‘womanly’. He is very caring and generous, but then at times very cheap and critical of others for their generosity. Such is the enigma of Leopold Bloom, one of the most likeable everyman characters in all of literature (it was very difficult not to picture him as George Clooney from O Brother, Where Art Thou?, another wonderful retelling of The Odyssey). He is not without his faults though, as he is a shameless womanizer and has the ‘undressing eyes’ aimed at all the fair ladies of Dublin (and what is with Joyce and men masturbating in public, ie The Encounter from Dubliners? I’m on to you Joyce…). Bloom spends much of this novel on the go, trying to move forward from the sadness of his past and the weight of thoughts of his wife’s possible transgressions. ‘Think you’re escaping and run into yourself,’ Bloom mentions. His ‘coming together’ with Stephen is also grounded in reality, as there is no clear-cut bond between them. ‘Frailty thy name is marriage’ Bloom thinks, playing off of the famous line from Hamlet. The marriage of Bloom and Stephen, Bloom and Molly, and many other ‘marriages’ of characters are fraught with incompatible moments, as people just do not always get along or agree. While the union of Bloom and Stephen is alluded to through the entire novel, they often are at odds with one another or offend the other while trying to be friendly. However, this meeting is highly significant in both their lives, and as many of these ‘marriages’ are flawed, they are shown as having shaped each individual. As C.G. Jung once wrote, ‘The meeting of two personalities is like the contact between two chemical substances. If there is any reaction, both are transformed.’Ulysses is not an easy novel by any means, but it is well worth the effort. The prose may be daunting at first, but patients, and a bit of guidance can really go a long way and this novel will eventually bloom for any reader so they can drink the sweet language of Joyce’s pen. There are so many wonderful techniques buzzing about and puzzles to unlock. Plus, this novel is outright hilarious. For one of the more comprehensive reviews you can find, you should also read Ian's stunning review.  Joyce has certainly left his mark on the face of literature with this novel, which is more than deserving of the title bestowed on it by the Modern Library of the greatest novel of the 20th century. Yes it is the greatest and yes you should read it and yes each word will blossom in your mind and Yes will I give this book a 5/5 and yes I said yes I will Yes.5/5Also, word on the street is that reading this book in public will make you “appear” smart.And even the great Jorge Luis Borges was moved by this novel:James Joyce (as translated by Norman Thomas di Giovanni)In a man’s single day are all the daysof time from that unimaginablefirst day, when a terrible God marked outthe days and agonies, to that other,when the ubiquitous flow of earthlytime goes back to its source, Eternity,and flickers out in the present, the past,and the future—what now belongs to me.Between dawn and dark lies the historyof the world. From the vault of night I seeat my feet the wanderings of the Jew,Carthage put to the sword, Heaven and Hell.Grant me, O Lord, the courage and the joyto ascend to the summit of this day.

Good books should participate in a "conversation" with each other, and with us when we read them. I made the mistake of inviting Joyce - via Ulysses - to join my literary conversation. He's not much of a conversationalist. He mostly just sat in a corner mumbling incoherently to himself. Every once in a while he'd quote - or try to ridicule - something he'd read somewhere, but that's not really conversation is it? More like namedropping.Buried within Joyce's verbosity is something similar to a plot related to a day in the life of Leopold Bloom, husband of Molly, father of Milly - away at photography school - and Rudy - namesake of Poldy's father - who's death at eleven days of age strained the marriage beyond recovery but left the sexual obsessions of Poldy and Molly intact leading to scenes such as Leopold masturbating on the beach while flirting at a distance with Gerty MacDowell or Molly masturbating as she daydreams about past, current, and future lovers including Stephen Dedalus who is seen by both Leopold and Molly as a substitute for poor Rudy - albeit in very different ways. How about that? I can write at least as well as James Joyce.Reading Ulysses is something akin to reading a very long list of spelling words...many of them without spaces between them. I've come to the conclusion that stream of consciousness writing comes in two forms. In one form, authors such as Thomas Pynchon and Virginia Woolf employ real - albeit often strange - sentences to portray the thought processes of their characters. The second form - epitomized by James Joyce and William Faulkner - involves the mere stringing together of unrelated words perhaps with the intention of revealing the depth of the psychosis of their characters. I much prefer the former method.

I have left this book unrated because I simply cannot rate it. I cannot review it either or try to criticise it. Instead, I’ve decided to share my experience with something I cannot define. But first, here’s what James Joyce had to say about it: 
'I’ve put in so many enigmas and puzzles that it will keep the professors busy for centuries arguing over what I meant, and that’s the only way of insuring one’s immortality.’
The accuracy of this statement balances out the sheer arrogance of Joyce’s assertion. I tried to put my own design on the book. Well, at least, I tried to focus on one particular recurring theme as I read in order to try and bring the thing together in my own mind. I failed. I focused on Death, or at least, discussions of Death and the representations of it. But after a while the ideas started to contradict each other and fade out of the narrative only to randomly pop up again and vanish.Here’s three quotes I pulled out from the beginning though: “Old England is dying…….” “And what is death she asked…..” “In a dream she had come to him after death…..”Death, and its shadow, seemed to haunt the early part of the writing. What is this end we are pushing towards? Is it an end? Can we even call it painful? The idea it conveys is that time, at least time according to human perception, pushes singularly towards this phenomenon: the ultimate truth of life.  Ulysses is deeply symbolic. This haunting can be read as a decay of the state, the breakdown of society (its traditions and values) as it enters a new modern era. The old structures of civilisation are dying, the world is changing, art is changing, thought is changing and perhaps this is what  Ulysses represents in some sense. Perhaps this new creature of literature is the very essence of this new dawn, of the modernist art movement, or perhaps I have simply been swayed by one of the many nuanced impressions within the work, the subtle hints and suggestions that can be ready in so many different ways. I focused so much on death that when it left the narrative I did not know what else to look for or why I was reading it or where the story was going. This book is not something that fits into a nice little box or one that can be summed up accurately: it simply is a thing that is. Forming a coherent opinion of something so incoherent is even harder. What can one judge? The sheer brilliance of the innovative writing is juxtaposed against the dull drawn out interactions and descriptions. Isn’t that sentence just one huge contradiction? Well, the entire book is one contradiction. I could spend a lifetime studying  Ulysses and still not be able to decipher it. I hate it. I love it. I want to burn it. I want to celebrate it. Certainly, I enjoyed reading parts of  Ulysses, in fact, I engulfed parts of it. However, I detested just as many bits of it. I was so terribly bored with large parts of the novel, frustrated, agonised and, on one occasion, actually sent to sleep. You could imagine my dismay when I woke up the next morning with the thing on the floor and I’d lost my page number. I had no idea where I was exactly, somewhere between pages 300- 500 I guessed rather inaccurately, so I had to try and back track. Much harder than it sounds. I lost my place in a book that I was already lost in completely. Not lost as engrossed, but lost in the sense that I had no idea where the hell I was in this labyrinth of writing and that’s before I lost my page. Now there’s some irony. The result was me reading around seventy pages a second time round with next to no memory I had actually read them until I came across a rather distinctive passage and was rather annoyed with myself.  Ulysses is a book that washes over you; it’s the sort of book that you can spend reading for a few hours and then barely remember what you have read. It requires a reader who can pay attention to a book that has a wavering plot, likes to wonder all over the place, and then return randomly to characters that have disappeared for a long period of time. All in all, it was my nightmare and my dream. It defeated me twice. I kept forgetting what had happened, and despite reading so many plot summaries, I probably could not describe this book beyond what the blurb on my copy says. I feel like I need to read it again. The thought fills with me dread. Perhaps one day when I am old, surrounded by thousands of books and an army of loyal cats, I will pick up this book again and remember my initial desondency and admiration. Or perhaps I will be wiser. Perhaps I will see to the heart of the matter and hate/love Joyce even more for this, for this thing. As a random aside, I feel sorry for whatever kooky old professor in  Fahrenheit 451 drew the bad straw and had to remember this book. I digress, but imagine that. Poor bastard.  I had to start the book again three times, and I found myself agonising over sections of inane and irrelevant bollocks. But there’s also beauty inside, just like life. How sentimental of me.  Ulysses is modernism. Modernist literature varied, though a sense of newness permeated all artistic representations. And this was, and still is, something new. 
I dare you to go and read it for yourself.

The singer asked the crowd - "how many of your have read James Joyce?" He had just sang Whiskey in the Jar and was queuing up to sing Finnegan's Wake, he was setting the stage for his next song. A few hands went up, mine among them. We were in The Merry Ploughman's Pub in South Dublin and the crowd was having a good time, singing and drinking Guiness from pint glasses. "Now, how many understood what you read?" The crowd laughed and half as many hands stayed up and I realized my extended arm wavered some too.I have looked at Ulysses over the years like it was a high and formidable mountain to climb. I have picked it up several times over the years, weighed it, set it beside the phone book and compared width. I have scanned the pages and noticed with alarm a painful lack of punctuation, and not the Cormac McCarthy kind of simplicity; but run on sentences, stream of consciousness. I have avoided the The Sound and the Fury for the same reason, finally giving up on that. Mailer’s Why Are We in Vietnam? was a morass of nonsense that I slogged through to the end, but it was a relatively short book. And then there is the length. Formidable. I read through War and Peace, in awe of its epic stature, and I finished Atlas Shrugged out of sheer inertia and also out of a morbid curiosity to see it through. Ulysses was long and in stream of consciousness prose.And so the years went by and I could not bring myself to begin the climb, did not feel up to sloshing through the swamp of adjectives and relentless narration.When I did finally begin, I was pleasantly surprised. The stream of consciousness technique was not overwhelming, was not the nonsensical morass of Mailer nor the cacophony of thought from Faulkner. Joyce’s language is rich and engaging, his storytelling modern and experimental but still approachable. There were moments that I was in love with the book, believing this was the greatest novel I had ever read, I was convinced of Joyce’s brilliance and inspired by his genius. It is funny, profane, irreverent, even shocking. The references to classic literature, especially the parallels with Homer makes it worthy of a greater review than I can come up with. Molly Bloom's lengthy soliloquy at the end is a gem of vulgarity and human observation. Other times I was simply reading to get through, keeping a runner’s pace through the long back miles and steep hills of a marathon.Ultimately, this is a masterpiece, a great work in the English language or of any language, literature of the highest order. But it can be difficult, in its length and its narration, and Joyce asks a lot of his reader, his prose is steeped in his own erudition and he makes little attempt to step it down. But for the reader who makes it to the top, it is a great view from the summit.

Ulysses, James JoyceUlysses is a modernist novel by Irish writer James Joyce. It was first serialized in parts in the American journal The Little Review from March 1918 to December 1920 and then published in its entirety in Paris by Sylvia Beach on 2 February 1922, Joyce's 40th birthday. It is considered to be one of the most important works of modernist literature and has been called "a demonstration and summation of the entire movement".According to Declan Kiberd, "Before Joyce, no writer of fiction had so foregrounded the process of thinking". Ulysses chronicles the peripatetic appointments and encounters of Leopold Bloom in Dublin in the course of an ordinary day, 16 June 1904. Ulysses is the Latinised name of Odysseus, the hero of Homer's epic poem the Odyssey, and the novel establishes a series of parallels between the poem and the novel, with structural correspondences between the characters and experiences of Leopold Bloom and Odysseus, Molly Bloom and Penelope, and Stephen Dedalus and Telemachus, in addition to events and themes of the early 20th-century context of modernism, Dublin, and Ireland's relationship to Britain. The novel is highly allusive and also imitates the styles of different periods of English literature.Episode 12, Cyclops: This chapter is narrated by an unnamed denizen of Dublin. The narrator goes to Barney Kiernan's pub where he meets a character referred to only as "The Citizen". There is a belief that this character is a satirization of Michael Cusack, a founder member of the Gaelic athletic association. When Leopold Bloom enters the pub, he is berated by the Citizen, who is a fierce Fenian and anti-Semite. The episode ends with Bloom reminding the Citizen that his Saviour was a Jew. As Bloom leaves the pub, the Citizen, in anger, throws a biscuit tin at where Bloom's head had been, but misses. The chapter is marked by extended tangents made in voices other than that of the unnamed narrator: these include streams of legal jargon, Biblical passages, and elements of Irish mythology.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و هشتم ماه ژوئن سال2002میلادیعنوان: اولیس؛ نویسنده: جیمز جویس؛ مترجم: منوچهر بدیعی؛ نشر نیلوفر؛ سال1381؛ در248ص؛ شابک9644481833؛ چاپ دوم سال1395؛ موضوع داستانهای نویسندگان ایرلند - سده20ماین کتاب به عنوان مهمترین، و مؤثرترین داستان سده بیستم میلادی شناخته شده است، زمان رخداد داستان: روز شانزدهم ماه ژوئن سال1904میلادی، و مکان آن شهر «دوبلین»، پایتخت «ایرلند» است؛ رخدادها بیشترشان در مدت شانزده ساعت رخ میدهند؛ کتاب با مهارت و دقت، در همان قالب «ادیسه»، اثر معروف «هومر»، نگاشته شده استنقل از بخش‌ دوازدهم‌ سیکلوپ‌: (آخرین‌ وداع‌ بی‌نهایت‌ تأثرآور بود، از مناره‌ های‌ دور و نزدیک‌ صدای ‌ناقوسِ‌ مرگ‌ لاینقطع‌ بلند بود، و همه‌ را به‌ تشییع‌ جنازه‌ می‌خواند، و در گوشه‌ و کنار محله‌ های‌ غم‌زده‌، ده‌ها طبل‌ پوشیده‌ در نمد، که‌ صدای‌ پوک‌ توپ‌ها آن‌ها را قطع‌ می‌کرد، ندایی‌ شوم‌ سر می‌داد؛ غرش‌ کر کنندۀ رعد، و روشنایی‌ کور کنندۀ برق‌، که‌ این‌ صحنۀ‌ مرگبار را روشن‌ می‌کرد، گواهی‌ می‌داد، که‌ توپ‌خانۀ ‌آسمان‌، از قبل‌ تمامِ‌ طنطنۀ‌ مافوق‌ طبیعیِ‌ خود را، به‌ این‌ منظرۀ‌ مخوف‌ عاریه‌ داده‌ است‌؛ از دریچه‌ های‌ سیل‌ بند آسمان‌ِ خشمگین‌، بارانی‌ سیل‌آسا بر سر برهنه‌ خلایقی‌ که‌ گرد آمده‌ بودند، فرو ریخت‌، و عدۀ‌ اینان‌ به‌ کم‌ترین‌ تخمین، ‌پنج‌صدهزار بود؛ دسته‌ ای‌ از پاسبان‌های‌ شهر «دبلین‌» بزرگ‌، به‌ فرماندهی‌ شخص‌ سرکلانتر، در میان‌ آن‌ جمع‌ عظیم،‌ به‌ حفظ‌ نظم‌ مشغول‌ بودند، و برای‌ آن‌که‌ آن‌ جمع‌ عظیم‌ سرگرم‌ شوند، دستۀ‌ موزیکانچی‌ سنج‌ و سازهای‌ بادی‌ خیابان ‌«یورک»، با آلات‌ پوشیده‌ در پوشش‌ سیاه‌ ماهرانه‌، همان‌ نغمۀ‌ بی‌همتایی‌ را می‌نواختند، که‌ قریحۀ‌ نالان‌ «اسپرانتزا» از گهواره‌ در دل‌ ما نشانده‌ است‌قطارهای‌ تفریحی‌ سریع‌السیر فوق‌العاده‌ و دلیجان‌های‌ موتوری‌ با نیمکت‌های‌ روکش‌دار تهیه‌ دیده‌ بودند، تا پسرعموهای‌ روستایی‌ ما که‌ جمع‌ کثیری‌ از آنان‌ به‌ آن‌جا آمده‌ بودند، در آسایش‌ باشند؛ وقتی‌ خواننده‌گان‌ دوره‌ گرد محبوب‌ دبلین‌ ل‌ـ ن‌ـ هـ ـ ن‌ و م‌ـ ل‌ـ گ‌ـ ن‌ ترانۀ «شب‌ پیش‌ از آن ‌روز که‌ لاری ‌دراز شد» را با آن‌ طرز نشاط‌ انگیز مرسومِ‌ خود خواندند، تفرج‌ خاطر فراوانی ‌پدید آمد؛ آن‌ دو مزه‌ پرانِ‌ بی‌مثل‌، و مانند ما با تصنیف‌های‌ یک‌ورقیِ‌ خود داد و ستد پُرغوغایی‌ در میان‌ دوست‌داران‌ طنز و هجا برپا کردند، که‌ اگر کسی‌ در گوشۀ‌ دل‌ عنایتی‌ به‌ طنز عاری‌ از لوده‌ گی‌ «ایرلندی‌» داشته‌ باشد، به‌ آن‌ چند پول‌ سیاهی‌ که‌ به‌ زحمت‌ به‌ کف‌ می‌آورند، غبطه‌ نخواهد خوردبچه‌ هایی‌ که‌ در «یتیم‌خانۀ‌ دختران‌ و پسران‌» بودند، لب‌ِ پنجره‌ ها جمع‌ شده‌ بودند، و به‌ این‌ صحنه‌ نگاه‌ می‌کردند، و از این‌که‌ چنان‌ برنامۀ‌ غیرمنتظری‌ به‌ سرگرمی‌های ‌آن‌روز افزوده‌ شده‌ بود، شادی‌ها کردند، و باید از «خواهران‌ نازنین‌ بینوایان‌» تقدیر و تمجید کنیم‌، که‌ به‌ فکر افتادند تا برای‌ یتیمان‌ پدر و مادر از کف‌ داده، ‌برنامۀ‌ تفریحی‌ِ به‌ راستی‌ آموزنده‌ ای‌ فراهم‌ آورند؛ جمع‌ مدعوین‌ نایب‌ السلطنه‌، که‌ در میان‌شان‌ بانوان‌ معروف‌ بسیار بود، در سایه‌ همراهی‌ عُلیامخدرات‌ مکرّمات‌، به‌ بهترین‌ جای‌ِ جایگاه‌ هدایت‌ شدند، و سفیران ‌بدیع‌ منظر خارجی‌، که‌ به‌ «دوستان‌ جزیرۀ‌ زمرد» شهرت‌ دارند، در جایگاهی ‌درست‌، روبروی‌ آنان‌ جای‌ داده‌ شدند؛ سفیران‌ که‌ با هیبت‌ تمام‌ حاضر بودند، عبارت‌ بودند از: «کومنداتوره‌ باچی‌ باچی‌ بنینو بنونه‌ -که‌ شیخ‌ السفرا بود و نیمه‌ فلج،‌ و ناگزیر بودند او را با یک‌ جرثقیل‌ نجاری‌ قوی‌ به‌ چوکی‌ اش‌ برسانند-»، «مسیو پیر پل‌ پتیت‌ اپتان‌»، «گراند ژوکر ولادیمنجلاب‌ حیض‌ لته‌ تشف‌»، «آرکژوکرلئوپوک‌ رودلف‌ فون‌ شوانزنباد ـ هودنتالر»، «کنتس‌ مارهاویراگاکیسا سزونی‌ پوتراپستی‌»، «حرم‌خان‌ فیسافاده‌»، «کنت‌ آتاناتوس‌ کارا ملوپولیس‌»، «علی‌بابا بخشش‌ راحت‌ القوم‌ افندی‌»، «سنیور هیداگلوکابالرودون‌»، «پکادیلوای‌ پالا براس‌ ای‌ پاترنوسترد» و «لامالورا» و «دولا مالاریا»، «هوکوپوکو هاراکیری‌»، «هی‌ هونگ‌ چانگ‌»، «اولاف‌ کوبرکدلسن‌»، «ماین‌هیر حقه‌ وان‌ کلک‌»، «پان‌ پولاکس‌ پادی‌ ریسکی‌»، «گوزپوند پره‌ کلشتر کراچینابریچی‌سیچ‌»، «بوروس‌ هوپینکوف‌»، «هرهورهوس‌ دیرکتور پرازیدنت‌ هانس‌ چوچلی‌ ـ اشتورلی‌»، «داکتر پروفسور ورزشگاه‌ ملیوم‌ موزیوم‌ آسایشگاهیوم‌ فتق‌ بندیوم‌ مبتذلیوم‌ اختصاصیوم‌ سنتیوم‌ تاریخ‌ عمومیوم‌ ویژگیوم‌ کریگفریداوبرآل‌ گماینه‌؛کلیۀ سُفرا بدون‌ استثنا با عباراتی‌ بسیار محکم‌ که‌ ناهنجارتر از آن‌ها ممکن‌ نبود، دربارۀ عملیات‌ وحشیانۀ بی‌نامی‌ که‌ آنان‌ را به‌ تماشای‌ آن‌ دعوت‌ کرده‌ بودند، سخن‌ راندند؛ سپس‌ مناقشۀ پرحرارتی‌ -که‌ همه‌ در آن‌ شرکت‌ کردند- در میان‌ «د.ج‌ ز» بر سر آن‌ درگرفت‌، که‌ روز تولد قدیس‌ نگهبان‌ «ایرلند» روز هشتم‌ مارچ‌ بوده‌ است‌، یا روز نهم‌ مارچ‌؛ در ضمن‌ این‌ مباحثه‌ به‌ توپ‌ و شمشیر و تیر برگرد و قره‌ مینا و نارنجک‌ گازی‌ و ساطور و چتر و منجنیق‌ و پنجه‌ بُکس‌ و کیسه‌ شن‌ و پاره‌ آهن‌ نیز متوسل‌ شدند، و بی‌ محابا برهم‌ ضرب‌ و شتم‌ وارد آوردند؛ پیک‌ ویژه‌ فرستادند و پاسبان‌ کوچول‌، آجدان‌ مک‌فادن‌، را از بوترزتاؤن‌ خبر کردند، که‌ آمد و به‌ شتاب‌ نظم‌ را اعاده‌ کرد و به‌ سرعتِ‌ برق‌ پیشنهاد کرد که‌ هر دو طرف‌ِ متخاصم‌ با قبول‌ روز هفدهم،‌ قضیه‌ را فیصله‌ دهند؛ پیشنهاد آن‌ پاسبان‌ تیزهوش‌ سه‌ متری‌ بی‌درنگ‌ مورد پسند همگان‌ واقع‌ شد، و به‌ اتفاق‌ آرا مورد قبول‌ قرار گرفت‌؛ تمامی‌ «د.ج‌ ز» به‌ آجدان‌ مک‌فادان‌ از تۀ‌ دل‌ تبریک‌ گفتند، در حالی‌ که‌ از بدن‌ چند تن‌ از آنان‌ خون‌ فراوانی‌ می‌رفت‌)؛ پایان نقلتاریخ بهنگام رسانی 04/10/1399هجری خورشیدی؛ 11/09/1400هجری خورشیدی؛ ا. شربیانی

as a bloke with an english degree, i guess i'm supposed to extol all thing joycian and gladly turn myself self over to the church of joye. after all, that's what english grads do, right? we revel in our snobbery and gloat about having read 'gravity's rainbow' and 'ulysses' start to finish.well, i may be in the minority when i say i didn't care for this book at all. i get that it's a complex book with innumerable references to greek mythology, heavy allegories, dense poetry wacky structures, and to some serves as a sort of mental masturbation. however, i think it's also pretty unreadable. maybe i'm old-fashioned, but i think books should be accessible and readable. it's something john steinbeck understood all too well. he most definitely wrote for the masses and the 'every man,' and it shows in his work. i prefer books that use simple language to expound on profound truths, not necessarily a book that requires me to constanty refer to other sources to help me understand what i've just read. this, of course, is just my opinion and should be taken as nothing more. i'm hesitant to say that anyone who gives this book 'five stars' does so because 'ulysses' carries such a cachet amongt the academic elite and intelligentsia, but i think most of them probably do. sure, that's unfair, but i'm really kind of wondering how anyone ever finished it. it's a bit of bore, linguistical acrobatics or not. if you do decide to read it, definitely get a copy with judge john m. woolsey's treatise on lifting the ban on 'ulysses.' it's a remarkable piece of writing and display's the judges thoughtfulness, eloquence, and fair-mindedness. it's the standard by which all judicial opinions should be judged [no pun intended!].maybe you'll read 'ulysses,' maybe you won't. if you do and you don't care for it, that's ok. being a great reader doesn't mean you two the critical line.

NOTES:1. Reading this so late, so long after its lessons have been absorbed and modified and abandoned and resurrected (see Will Self's Umbrella), I can't imagine what it was like for a first-time reader in 1922-23. For those who both loved and hated it, it must have been a hydrogen bomb of a book. The classicists must have been fit for tying. The hubris of rewriting Homer. The classicists must have been apoplectic!2. In the Hades/Graveyard section (6), Leopold Bloom considers the enormity of death at Dignam's graveside: "Must be 20 or 30 funerals every day [here]. Then Mount Jerome for the Protestants. Funerals all over the world everywhere every minute. Shoveling them under by the cartload doublequick. Thousands every hour. Too many in the world." And later: "Plant him and have done with him. Like down a coalshoot."3. I suppose what dazzles me most is that this novel can be so thoroughly packed with subtext, yet remain so readable. Is it the first scalable modern novel? This of course almost guarantees ever richer subsequent readings.4. Father Conmee. What a great name. Too funny. Not sure if this is a pattern yet, but so far Joyce seems to alternate chapters of rich allusion (Stephen Dedalus and others discussing Hamlet at National Library in the Scylla and Charibdis chapter) with chapters of pretty straightforward action (Conmee, Bloom's peripatetic progress). There's conflation, too, of Odysseus ten-year ordeal at sea with Leopold Bloom as Wandering Jew. 5. The Wandering Rocks chapter is Ulysses's center where Joyce parades virtually his entire cast past the reader as the Governor makes what smacks as a triumphal progress through Dublin. This reminds me very much of Henry Fielding's The History of Tom Jones: A Foundling, when all the players cross paths at the inn in the book's middle. Perhaps Fielding was also using a Homeric model?6. It's hard to endure the jeering layabouts (Lenehan, Dedalus pere, Dollard, etc.) as they make fun of Bloom's misfortune. Bloom who, suffering in silence, we come to like more and more. Also, cross-cutting, filmic. Yet we read (mostly) with assurance. Sure of our way. Again, I can't imagine what the first readers felt. Unlike us they had no precedent.7. Joyce's penchant for puns annoys. Actually, I'm beginning to hate it. Funny, almost everything else I'm fine with: the purposeful rhymes; the interlarded alternately speculative, abject, or ebullient etc consciousnesses; the rich allusiveness and multiple languages; the use of meaningless, infantile sounds, almost a babble (or perhaps Babel). Yet the puns strike me as sophomoric, someone playing saw amidst the philharmonic. Harsh dissonance. I suppose dissonance is sometimes useful. Penderecki springs to mind, and Coltrane, though these may be extreme examples.8. On another level the book can be read, at least in part, as an indictment of Irish Anti-Semitism. As expressed cogently on p. 484 of my Everyman edition: And to the solemn court of Green street there came sir Frederick the Falconer. And he sat him there about the hour of five o'clock to administer the law of the brehons at the commission for all that and those parts to be holden in and for the county of the city of Dublin. And there sat with him the high sinhedrim of the twelve tribes of Iar, for every tribe one man, of the tribe of Patrick and of the tribe of Hugh and of the tribe of Owen and of the tribe of Conn and of the tribe of Oscar and of the tribe of Fergus and of the tribe of Finn and of the tribe of Dermot and of the tribe of Cormac and of the tribe of Kevin and of the tribe of Caolte and of the tribe of Ossian, there being in all twelve good men and true. And he conjured them by Him who died on rood that they should well and truly try and true deliverance make in the issue joined between their sovereign lord the king and the prisoner at the bar and true verdict give according to the evidence, [etc.]This passage and others ridicules the bigotry and suggests that we are all of us of one tribe. Not to put too fine a point on it, but much else is given similar treatment in this chapter: blind nationalism, especially, which, at time of publication, had done so much to depopulate Europe of its young men. Come to think of it, aside from the well-known exceptions, there are no teeming displays of young men in the novel as there are displays of old men. On p. 632, supporting this observation, there is a deprecation of the "mutilated soldiers and sailors" of Dublin's streets.9. In the pure-streaming language section now known as "Oxen of the Sun." If this were Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey, this would be the part where Dave has entered the pod and is now speeding through far-flung intergalactic space experiencing a virtuoso display of psychedelic landscapes on the way. Yes, one can see how this would have been completely new in 1922. Then the language turns mock-chivalric/courtly/archaic as Bloom awaits some word on the Purefoy child. (See Erik's excellent comment No. 30 below.) Dixon arrives and so it's hie to the pub where Bloom comes upon a drunken Stephen, and they await Stately, Plump, Buck Mulligan. After long consideration of Mrs. Purefoy's protracted labor, Malachi arrives with the hilarious lament, to wit:It grieved him plaguily, he said, to see the nuptial couch defrauded of its dearest pledges: and to reflect upon so many agreeable females with rich jointures, a prey to the vilest bonzes, who hide their flambeau under a bushel in an uncongenial cloister or lose their womanly bloom in the embraces of some unaccountable muskin when they might multiply the inlets of happiness, sacrificing the inestimable jewel of their sex when a hundred pretty fellows were at hand to caress, this, he assured them, made his heart weep.This chapter must include a dozen or so parodies of various narrative styles, each with an almost seamless transition to the next. I can only pick out a handful of them on this first reading. They include the triumphalist battle song, troubadour's ballad, bawdy Rabelaisian tale, ancient Greek drama, epistolary, confessional, gothic, and Restoration Comedy modes, etc.10. The early going in the hallucinatory Brothel chapter (15) is as funny as anything in the book. I especially like Bloom's mock trial in the street, which might be called "Bloom's Ordeal," for sexual molestation and general rakishness. The style reminds me of Samuel Beckett who, as we know, thought the world of Joyce. Most of the section is wildly madcap and suggests a sheer ecstatic joy in storytelling. But it is long, too. Stephen's Latin has worn thin. I've stopped translating these passages. That can wait for a second reading. I have to admit I'm a trifle mystified by the long sex-reversal hallucination with Bello and Bloom. I thought at first that it might be a proto-feminist tract whose unseemly length hammers home a commentary about the lowly station of early 20th century women, but but then I thought that's too earnest and forthright for Joyce, who was no one's moralist. This was almost immediately contradicted by a passage in the following chapter (16), set in the cabman's shelter, in which the fate of prostitutes is bemoaned at length. The chapter (15) is a massive, teeming set-piece in which every character in the book makes an appearance, plus many historical figures not seen before: Shakespeare, Edward the Seventh, Lord Tennyson, etc. This was for me the most wearying slog of the entire book. I put it aside and came back four times before I could finish it. Hope your progress is brisker.11. Molly's soliloquy.

The best book I have ever read. Complex. Sophisticated. Fun!

Reviewed in August 2012This review is my attempt to reclaim Ulysses from the Joyce specialists and prove that it can have universal reader appeal. My edition was a simple paperback without notes or glossary but containing a preface which I intend to read after I've written my review. I'll probably look at other reviews too as, frankly, I'm suffering withdrawal symptoms from the world of this novel. The word 'novel' seems inappropriate to describe Ulysses but at the same time, the word might have been invented specifically to describe it. Everything about it is novel, from the structure to the use of language, from the characterisation to the treatment of history. But by ‘novel’, I don’t mean experimental in an obscure or inaccessible way, as its reputation seems to imply: I found Flan O’Brian’s At Swim-Two-Birds quite difficult to follow in a way that Ulysses is definitely not, and I’m finding Samuel Beckett’s Molloy, which I’m currently reading, much more difficult to get involved with. Ulysses was pure pleasure in comparison. So why has this book developed such a fearsome reputation? Perhaps because we mistakenly think that to enjoy it, we need to have a thorough knowledge of the classics, including Shakespeare and Homer. The fact that I know very little about The Odyssey except that it recounts a long journey home made by Odysseus/Ulysses didn’t take from my enjoyment in the least. I’m not an expert on Hamlet either, but the little I know, and which most people probably know, was sufficient to allow me to follow the sections which refer to it. There are a few Old English phrases near the beginning that I googled but I soon decided to just let myself sink into the world of Leopold Bloom and Stephen Dedalus without further interruption. Being able to read this without disruption is probably part of the reason I enjoyed the experience so much. When I bought my copy some fifteen years ago, I read about a third of it with great pleasure but as I had young children at the time and limited free moments, I had to give up when the reading experience became more challenging. And yes, it does become challenging in some parts, but never for very long, as if Joyce knew exactly how far he could try our patience. As to deciphering those challenging sections, I think that one reader’s guess is as good as another’s. A big part of the pleasure for me was the puzzle element because I had plenty of time to reflect on what I was reading, time to figure out a meaning that satisfied me and also made sense of the bigger picture. And that’s what my reading without notes proved to me: there is a perfectly logical trajectory behind it all, even behind the more phantasmagorical elements. During the course of one day, Joyce reveals more and more facets of his main character, Leopold Bloom, and of the world he lived in. The characterisation of Bloom is so well done that by the end, he represents everyman, and every woman too, as well as messiahs and prophets, kings and emperors, in short all of humanity, complete with all of its goodness, and yes, some of its failings. Of course, my interpretation may not be accurate and there may be acres of symbolism that I missed, but since I had such a satisfying read, how can that matter? My satisfaction may have depended to some extent on the fact that I have an Irish background, but to what degree it helped me, I cannot tell. It is true that some of the material was familiar from history lessons and from general culture but at the same time, the Dublin of 1904 was a complete revelation to me. And the themes covered move quickly from the local to the universal so that a lack of knowledge of Irish life and culture shouldn’t be an impossible barrier, just a challenging one. If you prefer exciting, stimulating, rewarding reading experiences, Ulysses might be the perfect book for you.

TEASES US OUT OF THOUGHT... diceva Keats. Così è con Joyce, ci fa uscire di testa, ci porta al punto in cui l'intelletto non serve. Milo O’Shea/Leopold Bloom e Geoffrey Golden in “Ulysses” di Joseph Strick, 1967, liberamente ispirato al romanzo di Joyce.Sono altri gli organi sollecitati dalla scrittura, altri neuroni: abbandonarsi, non capire, capire a metà, fraintendere, ascoltare il brusio incessante del linguaggio, seguirne le capriole...Il bel bianco e nero del film....Ho ancora il sapore del rognone che sfrigola nel burro sulla padella...And I schschschschschsch. And did you chachachachacha? And why did you?Milo O’Shea/Leopold Bloom.

Silly little kalliope, the spirally-kalliope, who had thought about entering the Labyrinth in the past but just stood outside looking at its entrance. For years. Luckily for her, the real Kalliope, the Grand, the Muse, springing out of GR where she has been dwelling in the recent past, took pity on her and after visiting the gods of literature and seeking their acceptance, decided to assist the spirally and guide her through the imposing Labyrinth.As the Grand Kalliope-the-Muse thought that Spirally would need further assistance once she entered the traitorous mesh, she awarded her three magic weapons: an edition with footnotes; a textual companion; and an audio version. After religiously (strike out the word religion in Joyce) looking up every footnote, Spirally, decided after a while to forget about them. Looking at the glow-worms in the floor, even if they seemed to be illuminating the way, could also mean that Spirally would knock herself against a wall. Too much attention paid to Mr Irish1, to Mr Irish37, to Mr Irish142. Too many of them. And even if the Labyrinth exists in a particular location and in a particular time and is not a product of fantasy, too much attention paid to Dublin’s streets could make Spirally miss the right corner and enter the wrong alley and never survive the Labyrinth. The textual companion was her safety jacket, however (view spoiler)[https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5... (hide spoiler)]. It kept her afloat by giving meaning. This was the compass. Otherwise Spirally could have found herself going up and down, right and left, and as in an Escher puzzle, with no end in sight. And Spirally does not like enclosing puzzles; they are anathema to her always advancing inner spirally being.The Audio was a blessing of the gods. The Labyrinth forms part of the spheres of sound and music, and its harmonies live in the vocal tradition. But Spirally’s ears are not tuned to its language. English is not phonetic and Spirally’s complete ignorance of Gaelic names meant that Spirally could not trust her own interior voice to unlock the right sounds, the rhymes. The Labyrinth has shifting walls and to find the right way one needs to listen to its inner reverberations and echoes. Listen to the Voice and you will Know. The voice also sculpts a high-relief out of flatness. Songs, and verses stand out and elevate themselves to the right register. With intonation. Baritones, mostly tenors, and eventually a shrilling soprano. Moments of welcomed and sonorous clarity.So the Muse advised Spirally that the full passage would take one day, which really meant seven weeks – seven – the magic number for the Creation – but seven times slower. But at least it did not take her ten years like Ulysses.The sixteen. One and six.The Muse also gave Spirally the clue that she would have to find the way through eighteen chambers, and that those places had already been marked by the ‘resourceful hero’ of classical antiquity. The chambers are also grouped in complexes, with an Antechamber, the maze proper, and a welcoming Home. Her protecting Muse also foretold her that there would be a son, and where there is a son, there must be a father – somewhere.Having done Spirally her preparatory calisthenics with Homer, she finally enters, but is immediately baffled since she sees no Greek ruins. Optimistic, she hopes her training will bring its benefits later. There is however a Tower, and that must be the son that the Muse foretold. From the non-classical belfry she could envision vaguely the forthcoming intricate maze through which she would have to survive. At first there are no difficulties in the progress, but while still in the Antechamber, Spirally has her first taste of the dizziness that the maze could induce in her. And yet, she enjoys this protean ambiguity. Relaxing. She can let the flow take her along. Not difficult. The walls seem to become wind, or water, and the lack of definition does not prevent her from advancing. On the contrary, there is an indeterminate flow that pushes her along. Mesmerizing her.Upon entering the intricate web, there he is, the father. The fatherly non-father. She notices the passages, and their names. She follows the broad one, Ecclesia, as welcoming as a church. There are many flowers along the way. How can they bloom with so little light? Could they serve as a way to find the way, like in Tom Thumb? As she proceeds, together with the flowers she encounters mushrooms with very wide and flat caps and make her think of the magic “nénuphars” in Boris Vian. Those mushrooms affect consciousness and it is no longer clear who is there and who is here. Could I get dizzy if I ate the mushrooms? Is that what is making me see that the pathway has become a canal and that not only there is water, on which one could navigate, but also that it falls over the walls, forming aerial cataracts. Luckily there is a boat and I can continue until I reach a new shore and continue walking. On the floor I see a slab with the letters Inferno (has Dante been here?) I should not fall in there. I have already followed Dante and managed to get out at the other side of the Earth, propelled upwards (downwards to the antipodes). No need to try that again.Suddenly a very strong waft of air blows me over, makes me lose my balance and had I not held strongly onto my weapons, it would have pushed me back to start all over again. It is so easy to miss a reference in this intricate web. Once recovered, I feel hungry and see that on the sides there are shelves with food. But it is all disgusting food, all bloody and fleshy, human flesh? If I survive, I may become a vegetarian. I also see a man peeing in Latin. Does this labyrinth have the shape of guts? What if I am in the guts of a large cetacean? Would that explain the water, and the winds?I hear an inner voice. Keep talking to yourself and you will not dissolve. Language is your being. It will guide you in putting order in a timely fashion: Nebeneinander and Nacheinander. Remember your texts, all the literature in your life will give you food for thought and energy. It is all bound in Mnemosyne. Hamlet knew his Shakespeare. This is the advice from the GreatMuse, and she should know. She is poetry. She warns me also: But don’t drink, or that liquid will liquefy your mind. OMG, OhMyMuse, there is another labyrinth within the labyrinth. And now what? At least I must be in the middle. I am entering an area in which Ulysses companions waxed their ears, but Kalliope-the-Muse has given me no wax. I will have to fugue it then, and grab onto the voices as they mix and interlace, straight and inverted, with false entries, but luckily my Audio will mark my way and will allow me to advance and to do so fast. Just as the Sirens of the cars open their way in emergencies.But I am still far from safe. In danger, I will have to pretend I am not here, in case I encounter a Monster. But MyMuse said that there would not be any monsters, at least not those of Nationalisms and bigoted Creeds. Nonetheless, I must try to stick to the wall and make anyone think that there is NoBody here. My spirally self must flatten and become linear as much as possible.The alleys from chamber to chamber are getting longer now. One needs more stamina before reaching another break and the end cannot be envisioned yet. But I get a respite because the walls are now getting smoother and of a lighter tint. Fit for a princess, or a nymph? And I can also see better now. And I am glad the quality of my vision is somewhat restored, for there are texts written on the walls. From the script I guess they have been written long long ago. They are in a language that I can decipher, but which stays foreign. The Audio contraption I carry helps bring these texts to life and I can hear their different harmonies even if I don’t recognize the tunes.But although I think I am advancing there comes a point in which I despair at the difficulty in finding my way and invoke Kalliope-the-Muse to come and help me. There is a new mist and it is thick and discerning forms becomes more difficult. Was I given something to drink that has bewitched me? I remember the story in Apuleius, with his Julius who turned into an ass, or was it a pig? This makes me wonder, could I be bewitched and not know? How could I find out? There are no mirroring surfaces on these shadowy walls. May be I am experiencing the very process of metempsychosis.But suddenly I see some light and I wonder whether I have traversed through the worse and since I have memory and there was an Antechamber, may be I am reaching the Postchamber and I would not be too far from the exit and from Home. Sweet home.And it must be so, because I feel my legs firmer on the ground. So is my vision. Clear. As clear as a catechism in which precise questions elicit precise answers and there is no way around it. My soul feels a great deal lighter. It can touch truth.Oh.Yes, here is the exit. Just as I stop hearing the male voices a new one rises over the previous echoes. This sweet, mellifluous voice sings her feelings when Morpheus has silenced the past ones. Candied tone but I do not like her song. They are the words from a myth, the female that men fear. It certainly is a female voice but do I detect a male mind behind?-------Yes.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>

First, about the haste. This book is a page-turner. Forget Stephen King. Joyce is the man you read in bed, furiously tongue-fingering the pages to see what seminal modernist technique he invents, masters, inverts, spins on its head like a circus freak with a whirligig in his bonce. The first five episodes set the pace perfectly, setting the reader up for the all-singing all-dancing feats of outrageous showboating that follow in the remaining thirteen chapters, each adding a few Jenga blocks to the superseding chapters to challenge the reader and keep her on her toes. Look, Joyce loves his reader! He’s the most unpatronising author this side of L.L. Cool J.! Joyce believes in you. He believes everyone has the capacity within them to crack his boggling Enigma code, and if that isn’t some heartwarming Sunday school moral, what is? So what if Joyce was wrong and every reader would need The New Bloomsday Book merely to scratch the surface of this amorphous, expanding superbrain of a book? Ulysses is an infinite novel. Unlike Finnegans Wake, where every attempt at some semblance of lucidity and meaning falls flat—the book a distant satellite fated to drift forever in space—Ulysses is an infinitely re-readable supernova of emotional and intellectual replenishment. Pure aesthetic pleasure. Everything that followed Ulysses expanded, plundered and rehashed Ulysses. It was the end and beginning of literature. If you like any books at all, anything post-Ulysses, you’re an ideal candidate to read Ulysses. It will break your heart, and your brain. End of.

Some works are not written; they are lived. The authors write not with ink, but with breaths. Every breath that finds its way in, sucks in a piece of the world and releases it into the author’s being, letting it permeate, gauge, prod, absorb and contemplate, and packages it like a farewell gift onto the back of the breath being puffed out. And since the saga of this breath-taking game continues for a few years till the red starts blinking, we get a work that resembles distilled crystals, found at the end of a purification process of worldly chemicals. Fuelled by my love for Stephen , when I instinctively picked up Ulysses to read last year, I knew I was entering a labyrinth of diverse and encrypted observations, thanks to its inescapably cult reputation. I was aware I won’t understand half of it. And I felt okay to be in that space. Ulysses, in simple terms, is an account of events of a single day in the lives of two Irish men, Stephen Dedalus and Leopold Bloom, in Dublin. They go out of their respective homes, go to work, meet a couple of friends and acquaintances, have normal and heated conversations over food and drinks, run into each other at a library, discuss some more ideas and opinions, bond and disengage, and say goodnight before going back to their respective dens. That’s pretty much the story, yes. But it’s Ulysses, right? And so it comes with its huge Andromeda of caveats. Within its seven letters, it held seven worlds and I was, unintentionally I assure, captured into its throes for seven months. This intimidating text often tames the ambition of a reader I had heard, sometimes right in the beginning, and occasionally, mid-way, of reading it in full. And the trepidation wasn’t without reason. Do we ever wonder about the answer we must truthfully give should someone ask the question, ‘What are you doing now?’ We are asked this atleast a dozen times in a day and mostly, we zero in on one activity, at the most, two and sometimes, none. But incidentally, the mind registers much more than one thing at a time. I am writing this review but I also heard the beep that my phone, kept next to my keyboard, made a second back. Oh, and I am also recording the movement of the person who is loitering by the door through the corner of my eye. A certain subdued chatter, emanating from the adjacent wing is also not going uncaught and so is the phone ring that is singing its soft bellow outside the corridor, in some random cabin. You see, my mind is going back and forth among all these activities and I am thinking of all of them at once, perhaps with a millisecond’s gap: who is messaging me (and what does he/she want), who is loitering around (and who is he waiting for, and what color is that shirt), what agenda is the group chattering about (and does that concern me in any way), where is that phone ringing (and why is no one answering). Mostly, the questions are inconsequential to me but not to my observations. The latter feeds on this scattered field of food and hungrily gobbles them up to keep its health in pink. These uncertainties in answers are, after all, the gaps within which, new meanings are born, every minute.The beauty of this work lies in this very premise: intricately overlapping thoughts that run within the minds of these two men over a canvas as vast as your imagination. Joyce must have been an avid reader and an even keener learner for the references one stumbles upon, stretch geographical boundaries, political systems, societal norms and religious beliefs. While the literature flavors swell into nostrils with Blake, Milton, Shakespeare, Swift, Dante, Aristotle and Poe concocting a rich broth, the linguistic sprinkling of Latin, French, Hebrew, Sanskrit, Greek and Italian jewels encrust the prudent mayhem. Algebra is summoned in a conversation and dispatched to an opera; sandwich is anointed as the hero of an Irish mythological meal. Coffee finds intense scrutiny over a discarded table top but adultery walks away like a dignified head of state. Since thoughts defy chains, words do too and all the structural nomenclature and conventional meanings are shown the door. So, no good becomes n.g and bartender is rechristened aproned curator. This voluminous work is made light by the collective effort of literary levers as all of them sashay in a bedazzling appearance beneath the core film: conversations, vignettes, reflections, satire, parody, lyricism, hallucinations, catechism, theatrical enactment, humor, allusions and aphorisms make hay while the sun shines and night whistles. The only mainstream narrative style I didn’t find was the epistolary route. Reading this was like undertaking water-skiing. The balance was slippery and the grasp, minimal. But one glimpse of the blue sea and all fears folded in its hues. And that occasional zenith one suddenly finds herself at, courtesy a huge, giant leap of cognition, is worth all the chugging along through choppy waters. I felt those incredible apogees at Oxen of the Sun (Chapter 14) and Ithaca (Chapter 17). But is there a way to read it? I am not very sure. But if my experience helps in any way, I am happy to share it under the spoiler :) (view spoiler)[When I started, I had two versions of Ulysses with me; a kindle version and a paperback. I wasn’t quite sure which one I should rather read. So, I did just a little bit of support-text research. There are loads of stuff offline and online and I am mentioning here only those that I sort of feel would be useful: Ulysses Annotated is a rich book for those looking for annotations to help understand certain contexts of political, commercial and religious heat of that time. Also, the deployment of multiple languages means multiple references to translating websites/ apps, where again, this book comes handy. But it is expensive (in fact, more expensive than Ulysses!) and may be unavailable in libraries. In such a scenario, there is a free alternative which is fairly good, if not that good as the book. Put together by some lovely soul from Columbia University, this neat website has annotations for most of the chapters and these annotations have their source back in Ulysses Annotated. If podcasts or audio is your thing, you could check Frank Delany's blog for some assistance. And now with all these resources, we are back to same question - how does one read Ulysses? Well, there is no answer, really. I ended up reading both my kindle and paperback; one after another. I didn’t refer to the annotations beyond Chapter 3 and went free bird thereon. There was a certain rhythm that had seeped into my reading and I begun viewing the incessant reference as an impediment in the overall experience. I do intend to read this again someday with all the annotations in place. That should be, then, an experience of another kind! Oh another element in this: does one need to read Odyssey before venturing into Ulysses as most of us know the former to be the structural bed of the latter? I have only one answer; if you have read Odyssey, great! and if you haven’t, fantastic! Either way, you are bound to have a trip of your life :) (hide spoiler)]Ulysses, on the surface, appears to have been written in an urgency. Upon reading it though, slowly, sipping a mug of coffee at every 20th page, I realized the urgency was a façade; all Joyce wished to do was talk. Talk because he was compelled to; compelled by the stunning sprouts of life and death around him, compelled by the inundating significance of routine and triviality engulfing him. Even while I suffered a string of failures in grasping the entirety of his revelations dripping from each page of this epic, I reveled in the overwhelming gusts of illuminating thoughts that shielded me from the maelstroms of ignorance.And yes... Happy Birthday, Sir Joyce. ----
Also on my blog.
["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>

You shouldn't read this. Almost no one should read this. People get mad when I say that. (Some people. Almost no one actually.) They think I'm dissing the book and I'm not, or at least not at that moment, although I don't particularly like it and I'm going to dis it soon. I'm not saying it's not a brilliant book though. If nothing else, it's definitely a brilliant book. I'm just saying almost no one should read it. The reason is that it's the most difficult book in the canon: it's the K2 of literature. And should everyone go climbing K2, just because it's a very good mountain? No, almost no one should because they haven't trained for it and they're going to die. Almost no one should climb K2 and almost no one should read Ulysses. You haven't trained for it and it's going to kill you.What it's going to do is it's going to annoy you to death. It's not like it's boring - it's not boring, really, except for episodes ten and fourteen - but it's annoying. It's 800 pages of trying to figure out what's happening. It's the most difficult book that we all agree is brilliant. Everyone knows about Ulysses. It's a taunt, a boogeyman, a trophy. Look, I read a lot of books myself, and I barely staggered through this and understood very little of it. And given that almost no one should read it and almost everyone who has feels about it the same way they feel about the time they ate a fried spider on a dare, it's easy to find yourself reviewing not the book, but the fact that the book exists.Because we have opinions about the fact of the book, right? Why must Joyce write an 800-page stream-of-consciousness masterpiece in which it's very hard to figure out what's going on and when you do figure it out it's probably farting? Why must people continue to call it a masterpiece? Is everyone just being assholes? Is it rewarding? Yeah, sure, I guess so. You won't forget it, anyway. Leopold Bloom, in his pathetic everyman interior optimistic life, feels like no one else in literature. And the feel of the words themselves, their collisions into each other and their abrupt abdications, is entirely unique.Will you like it? No, probably not. Some people do. Most people don't. I didn't, not really. I like having read it more than I liked reading it.But Ulysses is a rare thing: it's a book that doesn't need to be liked. It's not even really about being "liked". It has something else in mind.Virginia Woolf famously called Ulysses the work of "a queasy undergraduate scratching his pimples," but she also said of it, "If we want life itself, here surely we have it." It was a clear influence on Mrs. Dalloway, but she "invites the suspicion that she is awkwardly straining to rationalize an aversion that she cannot justify by logical means," and I bring this up in order to point out that a super smart lady feels the same way I do and therefore I'm right or at least not definitely wrong.Because here's my problem with Ulysses: my problem is James Joyce. I don't like him. I don't like his style, I don't like his sense of humor, I don't like his kinks or his kidneys, and I really don't like his bear-on-a-tricycle tricks. There's a new gimmick for every chapter in here. One contains a parody of every style of literature Joyce knows, which isn't as much fun as it sounds. Another is written as the Rabelaisian answers to a series of 309 questions. I don't like it.And that's okay, right? Authors are just people. You get to know them, not necessarily through their characters but through their books. Sometimes you don't like them. It's okay if you like James Joyce and I don't; people are like that. Joyce isn't the easiest guy to like compared to, say, Judy Blume, the most likable author I can think of...but you might.(So Joyce is not Leopold Bloom. I'm not sure if he's Stephen Dedalus; to be honest, I didn't feel I got to know Dedalus very well. But the kinks and the farts...those are all Joyce, my friend, make no mistake.)When Woolf called this "life itself", what she meant was that thing modernists were trying to create in the early 1900s (or trying to catch up to Tristram Shandy on, anyway): the interior process of living. Your inside voice, the unfiltered id. And Joyce has done it as well as anyone has; that's one of the reasons Bloom is so memorable. You know him on a level you don't know anyone else in literature, or really in life either; it's a level of direct access that you only otherwise get with weird dudes on the subway. And one of the things about that level of access is that I think it necessarily comes with a certain amount of farting. I mean that I'm earthier inside my head than I generally let on. The weird sex stuff, the awareness of my body's prosaic functioning - this is, actually, how my brain is too. Woolf and I find Joyce's frankness distasteful; in fact, we find it shocking, which is a funny feeling for me. But it's true, so maybe its shock says more about us than Joyce. Or, maybe turning into a lady and getting fisted is just super weird even for me and Virginia. We're all gross, but Joyce is gross in a specific way that's not mine, and we're back to I don't care for him.One of the recurring themes of Ulysses is how poorly we know each other. Bloom spends the book trying desperately to explain who he thinks he is to everyone around him. And everyone, from Dedalus on to Gertie, the young lady whose upskirt he whacks off to in the park, disagrees with him about who he is. In fact Bloom isn't who he likes to think he is either; he's some combination of his and others' perceptions of him, and Joyce does a lovely job of showing us how that all works. And in the climactic almost-twist-ending we find out that (view spoiler)[Molly, whose presence has permeated the book, isn't who Bloom thinks she is either. (hide spoiler)]So in his creation of a person whom we know, from every angle and from the inside all the way out, Joyce has done something that was entirely revolutionary at the time, which is still shocking today, and which to my knowledge has still not been matched. So. Five stars not for the book but for the fact of the book. Five stars for life itself, because we do want it, even if we don't always like it, and here surely we have it.

İnsan dünyada tek bir gün geçirse bile, hapishanede ona bir ömür yetecek kadar anı biriktirir.” Yabancı  Açılın Ulysses’i övmeye geldim! Yazıldığı günden bu yana hakkında belki de Kutsal kitaplar kadar çok konuşulmuş, kurcalanmış, koca bir külliyat oluşmuş bu eser daha ne kadar övülebilir, üstüne ne söylenebilir bilmemekle birlikte kendi okuma deneyimimden yola çıkarak birkaç kelam etmek isterim.Ulysses’i biri sözlük eşliğinde, biri de destek almaksızın iki sefer okudum, ara sıra da herhangi bir sayfasını açıp kendimi kitabın ritmine kaptırdığım çok oluyor. Bu yanıyla eser benim için bitmiş değil, her yeni okumamda yeni tatlar, güzellikler keşfetmeye devam ediyorum. Joyce’un arzuladığı aktif okura ya da Faulkner’in "Ulysses’e baptist bir vaazin kitab-ı mukaddese yaklaştığı gibi yaklaşın," önerilerinin ne kadar hakkını verdiğim muamma, çabalarım devam ediyor.Gelelim bu yorumun temel dertlerinden birine. Bu kitabın etrafında 90 yıldır öyle bir hâle oluşturulduki metne yaklaşan herkes en baştan eser karşısında maça 1-0 yenik başlıyor. Her yerde karşısına çıkan “dünyanın en zor, en anlaşılmaz metni, göndermelerinin altında yolunu kaybediyorsun, zaten yazar da anlaşılmamak için yazmış," yorumlarının ön bilgisi ile kitaba yaklaşan okur “ee zaten anlaşılcak bir şey yokmuş” diyerek metinle arasına mesafe koyuyor ya sıkılarak bırakıyor ya sıkılarak bitiriyor. Oysa Ulysses ne anlaşılmayacak bir metin ne abartıldığı kadar zor, ne de anlamdan azade. Eser ilk yayınlandığında müstehcen diye İngiltere ve Amerika’da 12 yıl basılmıyor, bugün bu esere müstehcen diyenimiz var mı? Anlaşılmama hususuna da böyle bakmak lazım. Virgina Woolf ilk okuduğunda günlüğüne şöyle bir not düşüyor “sanırım eser tek bir günde geçiyor." Bugün ise bunu bilmek için eseri okumaya bile gerek yok. Demek istediğim şu; anlaşılmama mevzusu ilk başta anlaşılır olsa da bugün için karşımızda yapılan yüzlerce çalışma, didiklenme, ıcığı cıcığına çıkarılması ile önümüze çırılçıplak serilmiş ( Kim olduğu hala tartışılan Macinthos yağmurluklu adam hariç) bir eser var. Ha ben emek harcamam okur geçerim diyorsanız saygı duyarım ama böyle yapıp “ya anlaşılmıyor işte” derseniz çok kızarım.Ulysses’e başlamak ve anlayarak okumak için uygun anı bekleyen okura öyle bir an gelmeyeceğini söylemek ister ve uygun andan öte Ulysses için evveliyatında doğru okumalar yapmasını öneririm. Bu okumalar bile başta yetersiz kalacaktır zira bütünlüğü ile o kültüre hakim olamayız ancak bu okumalar bizi metne daha da yaklaştıracaktır. Öncelikle Joyce’dan Dublinliler ve Sanatçının Genç Bir Adam Olarak Portresi okunmalı. Böylelikle hem Joyce’un dili ve dertleriyle tanışılır hem de Dublinliler’deki karakterler eserde yan karakter, Portredeki Dedalus ise baş karakterlerden biri olarak karşımıza çıkacaklar. Shakespeare’in Hamlet’ini okumakta fena olmaz bence. Ancak okunması olmazsa olmaz metin Homeros’un Odysseia’sıdır ki bildiğiniz üzere Ulysses kelimesi Odysseia’nın İngilizce yazılış şeklidir. Joyce elini baştan açık oynamış ve bu eser ile Odysseia arasındaki ilişkiyi vurgulamıştır. Kitabın sonuna geldiği günlerde arkadaşı Stuart Gilbert’e Ulysses’i anlamada yardımcı olacak Ulysses- Odysseia paralellikler tablosu vermiştir.Bugün Gilbert şeması olarak anılan bu tabloyu internette bulmak mümkün ve bu tablo üzerinden kitabı okumak faydalı olur diye düşünüyorum. Nevzat Erkmen’in Ulysses sözlüğü ilk okumada elinizin altında olursa işinize çok yarayacaktır. Zaten İngilizce biliyorsanız külliyat derya deniz, adama zorla öğretiyorlar anlaşılmaz denilenleri.16 Haziran 1904 (eşi Nora ile ilk randevu tarihleri) Dublin’inde geçen bu modern edebiyatın ilk ve en büyük “destan”ına arka plan olarak Homer’ın Odysseia ‘sını yerleştirken Joyce’un derdi ne Homer’a ne de onun büyük tanrılarına saygı duruşunda bulunmak değil elbette. Homeros’un tanrıları ve büyük dertleri olan kraliyet fertlerini ( Odysseus-Telekhamon- Penolepeia) Joyce; Bloom-Stephan Dedalus-Molly’e çevirirken kutsadığı ve destanlaştırdığı şey küçük insanların sıradan günlük yaşamlarıdır. Ulysses somurtkan ve ciddi okuru (allasen biri de bu kitabı çok matrak diye övsün diye dert yakınır Joyce) üzecek kadar gündelik yaşamın dertleri ve zevklerine boğulmuş bir kitaptır. Anlam noktasındaki sıkıntılardan biri de bu bence. Evet edebiyatta sıradan insan ilk kez anlatılmıyor ancak ilk kez sıradan dertleri, tasaları, monotonlukları ve düşündükleri ile birlikte anlatılıyor. Bu yanıyla anlam bekleyen okura Joyce sanki kutsadığı gündelik rutinin dışında ve üstünde bir anlam olmadığını söylemek istiyor gibidir, anlamsız değil anlam olanın kendisi ve düşündürdüğüdür. Ulusal destanların temel işlevlerinden biri o ulusa bir kimlik, kişilik, bir ahlak biçmesi ise Joyce’da iki efendiye (Katolik kilisesi ve İngiliz krallığı) hizmetçi İrlanda’nın basit insanlarına o eşsiz, kimselere benzemez üslubuyla bir şey anlatmanın derdindedir. Bir İrlanda destanı olan bu kitabın baş karakterleri Bloom ve Molly’nin İrlanda’lı olmaması, hatta Bloom’un başına iş açan Yahudi kimliği ( yurttaş Abe’nin gözünde kurnaz, içten pazarlıkçı, orta yolcu ve şıngırdak fein’in gizli kurucusu) bile soykırıma 20 kala çok şey söylemektedir.Joyce bir yerde serzenişle “ komünistler beni niye sevmiyor bilmiyorum, oysa ben her zaman küçük insanları anlattım” derken haklıdır. O İrlanda’nın küçük insanlarını kücük dertleri ile sokakta, meyhanede, cenazede, kilisede, genelevde, gazete büroları, kütüphaneler ve hastanelerde eyler ve bol bol düşünürken bir gün içinde anlatır. Kitabın zorluklarından biri de İrlanda’nın bu bir günüdür. Kitabı anlamak için bu günü, çelişkilerini ve joyce’un konumlanışını bilmek faydalı olur. 16 Haziran 1904 gününün Dublin’i politik( bağımzılık yanlıları ve İngiliz muhipleri), ekonomik ( yoksul köylüler ve geri alt orta sınıf ile aristokrasiden nemalananlar) ve mezhepsel( Katolik-protestan ) olarak ikiye bölünmüş bir topluluktur. Joyce politik bağımsızlık yanlısı bir ortamda büyümüş ancak bağımsızlık yanlısı hareketin lideri Parnell ihanete uğrayınca siyasete olan ilgisi öfkeye dönüşmüştür. Ulysses’in geçtiği Dublin sokakları 1916 yılında Connoly önderliğinde Paskalya ayaklanması ile sarsılmış, İngiltere tarafından kana bulanmıştır. Kitapın her bölümünde bu yoğun atmosferin etkisi hissedilmektedir, İngilizler yerilirken öze dönmeci Kelt miti ile de dalga geçilmektedir. Bu döneme dair az biraz bilgi metni daha anlaşılır kılacaktır. Elbette her gönderme ya da her muhabbeti anlamak zorunda değiliz, bunlar olmadan da keyif alabilirsiniz okumadan. Yeter ki gözünüz korkmadan ve o ukala dümbeleklerin yarattığı haleye teslim olmadan yaklaşın esere.Joyce, kullandığı anlatım teknikleri, üslubu, tanrı anlatıcıyı dışarıda bırakan, anlatıcıyı belirsizleştiren ve hatta iç içe geçiren ve kurduğu yapı ile roman biçiminin sınırlarını sonuna kadar zorlamış ve bunu yaparak gözümüzün önünde akan gündelik rutinin monotonluğunda sıradışılığı ortaya çıkarmıştır, hepimizin hayatı bir roman olmasa da Ulysses’de bir yan karakter olabilirmiş mesala. Sırf bu nedenle bile seviyorum bu romanı. Basit hayatlarımızdaki değeri anlatan ve Molly’nin “Evet isterim evet”i ile tüm yanlışları ile hayatı kucaklayan Ulysses’i bugün kitlesel kıyımların sayılara indirdiği milyonlarla yoksul ölü, 2 dünya ve yüzlerce bölgesel savaş sonrası ve sırasında okumak ve yeniden okumak lazım, Ulu, yüce ve tanrılar diyarından bizi ve hayatımızı aşağılayanların suratlarına biz buradayız ve değerliyiz demek için.Bir de popüler kültür ve kolpa edebiyat dergileri sayesinde Oğuz Atay çılgınlığına kapılan Türkiye’li okur Tutunamayanlar’da gördükleri anlatım biçimi, noktasız virgülsüz bölüm ve diğer bir çok şey için bir Ulysses’e baksın. Oğuz Atay’ı en çok etkileyen ve kitabında etkileri en bariz olan Ulysses’i ve Nabokov’un Solgun Ateş’ini okumayan bir zahmet Oğuz Atay seviyorum diye gezmesin ortalıkta ya da gezsin canım bana ne oluyor ki!

A novel to “keep the professors busy for centuries arguing over what I meant”- James Joyce.In „Ulysses“ we follow one day, from morning to evening, in the life of Leopold Bloom in Dublin,1904. Parallel Stephen Dedalus is introduced, whom Bloom encounters several times over the course of the day, until they ultimately find together.Leopold BloomLeopold Bloom (Milo O'Shea) in the 1967's movie of UlyssesLeopold Bloom is the protagonist of the story and the Irish everyman, a thirty-eight-year-old Jewish advertising canvasser. He has the status of an outsider, as he doesn’t drink often in the Irish Pubs, or gossips with his male peers, but rather excludes himself. Others don‘t take him seriously and he is frequently confronted with antisemitism. His father just previously killed himself and his only son died soon after his birth. This contributes to his wife‘s adultery , as they lost their intimacy because of it. He is generally a passive, accepting person, while being very occupied with sexual thoughts himself, which he expresses through public masturbation and pornography. He is very empathetic and sympathizing, charitable to animals and people in need, but his masculinity is frequently called into question by others. This creates the irony that Bloom as everyman is also somewhat feminine, and it‘s precisely his fluid, androgynous capacity to empathize with people that makes him the hero of the novel. He both suffers from and exposes the insularity of Ireland and Irishness in 1904.Stephen DedalusStephen Dedalus (Maurice Roëves) in 1967's film of UlyssesStephen Dedalus is a version of the twenty-two year old Joyce himself, whom Bloom meets frequently during the course of the day. Stephen has returned from medical school and Paris, to visit his mother at her deathbed, who blamed him for not praying for her. He is a reluctant history teacher at a boy’s school, disappointed and moody. Stephen is self-conscious but struggles to understand himself, which draws him to identify with Shakespeares fictional characters and struggles with religion. He lives in his own world of ideas and his actions tend to distance himself from others, particularly his father, whom he rejects. But Stephen’s struggle to define himself is not just about the independence from his fathers authority, but is just as much a struggle with the authority of God and the British empire, which relates him to Bloom.AntisemitismA Jew in the catholic and antisemitic DublinAs a Jew in the catholic and significantly antisemitic Dublin, Bloom is constantly victim of discrimination, revealing the conflict around the national Irish identity. A conflict that is even reinforced, by Irelands aspirations for independence from England and the fact that Blooms father was Hungarian, not Irish. When confronted by an anti-Semitic Irish nationalist, Bloom patiently makes the case for an open, tolerant Irish nationalism, but when rebuffed and threatened, he fights back.Bloom is never accepted. Throughout the monumentally unremarkable day, numerous instances of antisemitism occur, ranging from offhand comments to aggressive confrontations. Just at the beginning of the book no one reacts when the Englishman Haines remarks that German Jews are becoming Britain’s “national problem”. And towards the midpoint of the day, Bloom is chased out of a pub by a drunk, who threatens to brain him for uttering Jesus’ name. Those incidents make clear that Bloom is viewed as a fundamental outsider, incapable of integrating no matter what he tries.Homer‘s Odysseus is a great warrior king who goes from triumph to triumph for more than a decade, conquering monsters, other heroes and gods. Ulysses is the english name for Odysseus, and Bloom his modern equal. A mild-mannered man whose Jewishness sends him from humiliation to humiliation, and instead of great battles over several years, Ulysses records his mundane and often embarrassing activities over the span of a single day. Yet that is the point. In Ulysses everyday life is heroic, every event, every action, even every thought or impulse is potentially world-shattering. Leopold Bloom’s daily travails are no less important than those of an ancient warrior king.Father Complex Stephen Dedalus and Leopold Bloom connect.On the most basic level, Ulysses is a book about Stephen’s search for a symbolic father and Bloom’s search for a son, an idea that is similar to Homers "Odysee". Bloom’s search for a new son, stems from the death of his child and his feeling, that he has no identity and heritage, in the catholic Dublin. Stephen already has a biological father, but doesn‘t feel any emotional connection to him and chooses to ignore him. Stephen feels that his own ability to become a father himself is prevented by his fathers criticism and lack of understanding. Thus Stephen’s search involves finding a symbolic father, who consequently will allow himself to be an actual father. Both men are in search for fatherhood, as a way to reinforce their own identities, which brings them together.Writing StyleJames JoyceThe book is structured like Homer’s "Odyssey". It consists of eighteen episodes, each having a unique setting and narration. From conversations in pubs in Irish slang, to discussions between intellectuals with Latin terms, hallucinatory dream worlds, parody, consciousness-stream loaded wonderings through memories and sensual experiences. In that construction "Ulysses" is like a mix between "Berlin Alexanderplatz" and “Mrs. Dalloway”, while being utterly unique.If the characters are tired, he makes the prose bored and simple. If Bloom is having an orgasm, Joyce tries to make the words themselves come to a climax. If the character are intellectuals, they constantly refer to Shakespeare, Socrates, Händel, Mozart, Bellini..”Think you're escaping and run into yourself. Longest way round is the shortest way home”.From the 1904 point of view it‘s vulgar, pornographic and very intellectual , no one wanted to publish it and it caused an obscenity trial. Today however, it really isn‘t scandalous anymore. I appreciate his ability to use language and to use it as tool to give character’s personalities. Non the less, particularly the amount of sensual descriptions, sometimes distracted me from the actual people and their struggles in the social setting of Dublin in 1904.

(Geneva, late 2012. Plainpalais market, a riotous display of phallic vegetables, ill-smelling cheese and trash literature. THE REVIEWER and his GIRLFRIEND walk through the stalls hand in hand. Polyglot conversations around them.)THE REVIEWER: Now here's a significant quote."My methods are new and are causing surpriseTo make the blind see I throw dust in their eyes."STANISLAW LEM: Mogę to rozwinąć.MICHAEL KANDEL: I can give you more details on that.SWEDISH SHOPPER: Hej! Jag kommer ifrån Bollestad. THE REVIEWER: And this one. "The sense of beauty leads us astray." It's like Proust, but the exact opposite. Maximally implicit rather than maximally explicit. AMERICAN SHOPPER: I'm from Biloxi. THE REVIEWER: A projective space? A Riemann sphere? U.P.: up. Or down, if you prefer. It comes to the same thing.(THE GIRLFRIEND gives him a irritated look)THE REVIEWER: [Smugly] Don't get your knickors in a twistor.[They have reached a bookstall full of lurid French paperbacks. THE GIRLFRIEND, ignoring him, starts going through them]THE GIRLFRIEND: Have you read this one? Les Sirènes de l'Autoroute.THE REVIEWER: Très douce.THE GIRLFRIEND: Les Sacrifiés du Soleil?THE REVIEWER: Amazingly, appallingly alliterative!THE GIRLFRIEND: La Plage aux Nymphes?THE REVIEWER: Nausicating.GIRLFRIEND: [Giving up in disgust] You're such a smartarse. What were you talking about? Cosmology again?ALBERT EINSTEIN: Take one curvature tensor, contract, subtract a scalar, et voilà! Instant universe. On that mystery and not on the Madonna which the cunning Italian intellect flung to the mob of Europe the Church is founded and founded irremovably because founded, like the world, macro- and microcosm, upon the void. Ex nihilo nihil fit. Mais non. THE GIRLFRIEND: Speak English, you old fart.[EINSTEIN shrugs and calls over LAWRENCE KRAUSS and RICHARD DAWKINS to join him. They sing together in uncertain harmony]ALBERT EINSTEIN: Space is curved.LAWRENCE KRAUSS: But it's flat.RICHARD DAWKINS: Well, that's put an end to that.THE REVIEWER: I'm not sure I follow---RICHARD DAWKINS: [Irritated] There is no God. Do I have to explain everything? [EINSTEIN, KRAUSS and DAWKINS all disappear again. THE REVIEWER and his GIRLFRIEND proceed towards the Route de Carouge. A TRAM passes, on its side a Christmas-themed wine poster whose title is "La belle houx"]THE TRAM: Brhm brhm brhm brhm-hm-hm. Brhm.STEPHEN POTTER: [Holding wine-glass] Too many tramlines. THE REVIEWER: A little bit cornery round the edges.STEPHEN POTTER: Well ployed sir! [He raises his glass in salutation to THE REVIEWER, who follows his GIRLFRIEND across the Route de Carouge. CHARLES DARWIN steps out of the Rue De-Candolle to meet them] CHARLES DARWIN: There is grandeur in this view of life, with its several powers. THE REVIEWER: [Blankly] What's evolution got to do with it?CHARLES DARWIN: Oh, I don't know. Survival of the fittest or something. I mean, it's survived? You can't deny that? And you wouldn't expect it to if it were as crazy as it looks?THE REVIEWER: I suppose not. But---CHARLES DARWIN: Not only that, it's reproduced. Any number of people have copied it.THE GIRLFRIEND: Look, just because---CHARLES DARWIN: [Cutting her off] Well then. I rest my case.THE REVIEWER: [To his GIRLFRIEND] So what is the fascination of the book? What revelation does it promise us? [Enter KRISTEN STEWART, wearing a semi-transparent gown] THE GIRLFRIEND: You can't see as much as you think.THE REVIEWER: The opacity only makes it more interesting. Trust me.KRISTEN STEWART: Art thou real, my ideal? it was called, and after that there was something about twilight, will thou ever? That's so inspiring, isn't it?THE REVIEWER: [who cannot take his eyes off her] May I write a poem to your breasts? [With an insinuating leer] They say I'm good at that.ROBERT PATTINSON: [Shoving in ahead of him] I was first. THE GIRLFRIEND: Well fuck me dead.ROBERT PATTINSON: NecrophiliaI've heard of sillierThe question isWont ya or will ya.[He goes down on one knee]KRISTEN STEWART: I will. Voglio. However you pronounce it.THE REVIEWER: But she'll be hard. Impenetrable. Like marble. Where's the pleasure of the text?ROBERT PATTINSON: It's not hard when you're married. You need to make a commitment.THE REVIEWER: All the same---[THE GIRLFRIEND drags him away towards the Pont du Mont-Blanc. Halfway across, they meet THE PROPHET ELIJAH]ELIJAH: Behold! [They turn, following his outstretched arm, to see the Jet d'eau]THE REVIEWER: A height of one hundred and forty metres. Five hundred litres per second. That's --- ah --- thirty thousand litres a minute. Nearly two million litres an---ELIJAH: Yet the lake is not full.THE GIRLFRIEND: Well of course it fucking isn't. It flows off down the Rhône.ELIJAH: [Disappointedly] Don't pick at the metaphor.[THE GIRLFRIEND is about to say something else but THE REVIEWER, seeing that ELIJAH is about to make a speech, manages to stop her]ELIJAH: Regardez! Protéiforme, constant mais toujours en changement, ange annonciateur, puissance inépuisable. C'est ça, ce livre. Vous comprenez?THE GIRLFRIEND: [Surprised at herself] Yes. [ELIJAH bows, first to her and then to the fountain. For a moment, they all gaze at it in silence]E.L. JAMES: [who has somehow turned up unnoticed] Holy shit! CURTAINYou may also want to read my review of The Bloomsday Book

To read Ulysses by James Joyce, I think you ought to have a certain literary maturity; otherwise (but also) you have to let yourself carry away, and too bad if you don't understand everything.When we travel, will we analyse everything? If we go to a museum, are we going to look at everything down to the details? My examples are perhaps a little prominent, but it explains that this book is to be read simply without taking the head, then to come back to it and there hop why not analyse more in-depth.It is a complex but original book because it differs by the interior monologue, the absence of punctuation, etc.Warning; the author is pretty raw!Good luck reading this literary Everest.

Like Odysseus was aided by his fellow men and gods on his quest to return to Ithaca after twenty years of absence, I, who feared so much tackling Ulysses all by myself, for its complexity amounted a reputation as big and powerful as the Trojan horse, I received great help from my fellow companionship from the Odysseus to Ulysses reading group, who contributed with information, different interpretations and perspectives - which without I might have failed at finishing - and that undoubtedly pushed me to finally get to my Penelope - or, in that case, Molly.I'm not gonna lie though: even with all that help, concentrating and focusing at times were rather difficult tasks for me to accomplish, not that the process wasn't amusing as I found it curious to observe that while reading a character's stream of consciousness - and the writer really excelled in writing those as it was mind boggling how one thing led to another and how many times I thought to myself how it all made perfect sense and how everything had been finely connected -, but while reading Joyce's words, streams of my own were triggered, and as I started following them thought after thought, my eyes - feeling cast aside, completely ignored - complained that my brain wasn't processing what they were showing and how they were working for nothing - see, the eyes are forever jealous of the mind's eye, the one that truly possesses the great power of vision. It turned out my brain assumed that since I was reading someone else's stream of thoughts, it set out on a quest to prove that it could produce its own - and "much better!", it told me - since it had the deepest knowledge of what would really interest me. So I did find myself having to go back two or three pages - oh how my eyes protested against it! - to be able to return to Joyce's book.As it happened when I started reading The Odyssey, I was very anxious to meet Odysseus. So, in Ulysses, after going through its first three episodes, I was all ready for some Bloom: such expectations were certainly met with some reservations. He made me very angry countless times with his tip-toeing and what seemed to be a general lack of courage to engage in confrontation (I should just say "he lacked balls", as it would definitely go well with the feel of the book and its indecent manners, as it was accused of being upon its release) - but when I came to think of it, even this anger Bloom provoked in me was a brilliant move from Joyce's part, especially once we think Leopold is a modern day Odysseus: he flees from fights as quickly as the Greek warrior ran into them, asked, solicited them. If Odysseus's soul had reincarnated into Leopold Bloom, one could make a point that it was still so tired after so many endless traps and mishaps from its past life that it lost all of its vigor, power and energy, thus turning into someone who, while faced with daily, banal difficulties, couldn't even gather one tenth of the necessary strength he had showed in the past to face his adversities.But as Joyce wouldn't write a one-dimensional character, I did empathize with Bloom on one or two occasions, the main one being his recognizing in Stephen Dedalus his dead son Rudy, and wishing to take him under his wing and care for him as a proper father would. Although there wasn't much else I could relate to when it came to Joyce's other characters, I did recognize myself in the moments where a character is seemingly engaged in conversation with another, but what goes through his mind has nothing to do with that talk. I usually lose track of conversations I'm having because I'm inside of my head, and if my interlocutor could come up to me, just as close as it takes and peek through my eyes, he definitely would see a complete different and separate place, in another time and in another situation. This gave me a very good sense of reality in Joyce's writing and the feeling that he was really devoted in being as realistic as he could be.He toys with language and style like no other: each episode is written differently from the previous and the next, and that advantage you normally gain in reading books that flow better once you adjust to their universe never works for Ulysses, since each episode felt like a new, different and (at times) more complicated beginning, like a new battle. His versatility seems to be unmatched. While Wandering Rocks (episode 10) is written in a fast-paced mode, composed of little vignettes following characters out and about Dublin that are intertwined here and there through small details, taking the reader to a car ride around the city, watching, while passing, every scene as if he was at home pressing fast-forward on a film playing on the tv, Circe (episode 15), is a surrealist play featuring fantasies, sexual fetishes and hallucinations: it is even structured as a play, with dialogues assigned to the characters and even stage directions. In this lengthy episode, Joyce takes us as deep as unimaginable to a level as of yet unexplored in Bloom's and Dedalus's subconscious. Penelope (episode 18, the last one) leaves it all behind and we find ourselves inside of Molly's head, witnessing her side of the story, her frustrations and expectations, all through a woman's perspective.At the core of the novel, dusting off all parallels, correspondences and contrasts, blowing out the candles and leaving the book with just a basic moonlight to illuminate it, we find the book's raw plot. Joyce has his characters performing mundane and uninspired tasks - as most of the days on ordinary people's lives really are - which poses an interesting challenge for the writer: how to involve his reader? How to make him want more of this story? What would make a reader continue to go through a struggle reading?It's difficult? Yes, but it's rewarding at the same time. Joyce himself has said it that he wrote in his book "so many enigmas and puzzles that it will keep the professors busy for centuries arguing over what I meant." Did I assimilate everything Joyce was throwing my way? No. There are many literary, political and historic references that in one way or another I was able to understand, but some (honestly? most!) I for sure overlooked, and that brings me to another important point I had in the back of my head throughout my reading experience.There are many levels of reading and different types of readers and because of that, each Ulysses is as unique as the next person, so one should never expect to read the same book or find the same reading experience as others. The amount of references, connections, underlying motifs, web of ideas and synapses labyrinth to be found here is simply Homeric. To be able to enjoy this book and Joyce's literary achievement, to relish in his geniality, you don't need to have a checklist to know you absorbed everything or pen and paper to cross each item you understood as if it was a to-do list. It's mean to be reading, it's not homework, although the latter is deeply connected with the former, they're separate things that serve different purposes. I, for one, really enjoy understanding connections as well as possible, so I did my share of external reading as far as my curiosity took me, I did not push myself any harder than that. I prepared a joyceride where I read Dubliners, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, The Odyssey and Hamlet, and even used a very helpful guide (The New Bloomsday Book: A Guide Through Ulysses) - but those were books - minus the guide - I would already read at one point or another. It's certainly not mandatory - don't shy away from this book because it seems like a chore and too much work - to read any of those in order to conquer Ulysses and, frankly, even with as many references as I gathered, I wasn't able to take everything at once, and that's ok. I don't need to, no one needs to. Plus, it would for sure take away all the fun of a re-read.Speaking of re-reading, I regret my decision of reading this work in Portuguese. This isn't at all a testament against Caetano W. Galindo's translation: he's an accomplished translator and one of the best and I do believe he made the best choices he could in order to make Joyce's masterpiece make sense in our language, but nonetheless some things were lost as they just wouldn't translate well. I kept an English copy for reference and it was pretty useful, but I do plan to re-read the entire book in its original form late next year.Rating: one of the criteria I use to evaluate just how much I enjoyed a book is the level of related reading it prompts me to do. I already listed what I read in preparation for this literary journey, and now I have a list of post-reading that I want to tackle: James Joyce (a biography by Richard Ellmann), Re Joyce, Finnegans Wake, and then re-read Ulysses and A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man... well, 5 stars.

I wanted to start out discussing the baggage that comes with reading this book and the challenge of attempting to reach a verdict on its quality in out-of-5-star form, let alone that of trying to write a coherent response. But unfortunately, I’ve already covered that intro ground with another  review. But where I succeeded in not becoming a slobbering fanboy or prickish contrarian on that occasion, I have here, much to my own surprise, failed. During the early episodes of the book I felt like I was in 3- or 4-star territory. But then came the Shakespearean Scylla and Charybdis sequence and I started getting excited; a few chapters later I read the Cyclops episode, which caused me to become, in my wife’s astute summation, ‘giddy’. I swallowed the rest of this book in a couple of days, foregoing the finishing of The Odyssey itself, which was purportedly my preparation for Joyce’s celebrated novel. My final, overwhelmingly positive response to Ulysses was an unexpected delight after holding the impression that Joyce's works, while enjoyable, might not be for me in the same way as those of some of his contemporaries. I wasn't completely bowled over by A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man in high school or by Dubliners a few weeks back. I’d even read the first 100 pages of Ulysses back in 2008 before getting sidetracked by War and Peace, the conception of a nearly year-long Russian fever that began to abate about the time I became enamored with this website. But that initial setting down of the book was likely a blessing, as fresh Shakespeare and Homer reads go a long way toward increasing a layered understanding of and gratification from this novel. I think the primary reason that I enjoy plodding Realist epics and plotless Modernist fare is that I find human drama and psychology, realistically portrayed, to be endlessly interesting. There's no topic too boring when laid out truthfully in a prose that elevates the mundane to a realm demanding rapt attention via aesthetic alchemy. To successfully embrace and conquer the ordinary takes a special writer, but I remain easily enthralled when Proust or Woolf wax prolix on table setting rituals or when Tolstoy dallies on a hirsute upper lip. Joyce moves a step further with the whole 'make the quotidian interesting' approach and, for me, it works because it seems—to every part of my mind and experience--true. Bloom and Stephen are real people with thoughts and actions, ranging from the tedious to the generous to the despicable, that are often wincingly human. They’re presented to us in a way that’s wildly imaginative and über-detailed yet considerate of our desire to follow a well-arced human story. And this, Goodreaders, is why I read. It’s often difficult to love a book when the main characters are unlikeable, and I know this is a problem that some have had with Ulysses. Thankfully, I found myself caring more and more for Bloom, in spite of and because of his numerous flaws, as June 16, 1904 wore on. Our hero constantly dwells on his cuckolded state and occasionally even on suicide. It's clear that he's an outsider and has to make an extra effort just to remain at the periphery of his social circle. Something about the way his mind works, how it bounces around curiously from topic to topic without dwelling too much on his misfortunes, is genuinely affecting. There's little woe-is-me with Bloom; he’s just a real-life accepter, trying to get by while nursing modest bourgeois dreams. It’s this upbeat-in-spite-of-everything attitude, tinged with a degree of compassion not found elsewhere in the book, that makes him so endearing. Given that we have access to every bit of his mental processing, the transgressions of his mind (mostly sexual and adulterous in nature) seem minimal and intrinsically human. Some serious critics claim that Joyce needed an editor, but we require all of Bloom's thoughts: the irrelevant, the irreverent, the erroneous, the silly, the serious. And with these thoughts we get excellent treatments of all the themes (and more) for which I come to fiction: death, lust, love, existence, virtue, debauchery, justice, purpose. A day after finishing the book, I’m still struck by Joyce’s ability to render such a rounded character within a generic 24-hour period. By the end of the book we know Bloom intimately, but as with the people we know best in our own lives, there are aspects of him that remain mysterious and conflicted. Bloom’s strong points are often so well-connected to his weak ones that it can be difficult to conclude which is which. For instance, Bloom seems always to think the best of people even after they’ve behaved horribly. Following a man’s drunken and public cries of anti-Semitism, Bloom thinks that he probably meant no harm and was just riled up from the drink; he silently forgives him. But then he considers that he (Bloom) might have gone too far by declaring, in defense, that Christ was a Jew. He’s finally stood up for himself (in one of my favorite passages ever), but he ends up feeling guilty about it, a guilt that betrays a weakness in his character or, from a shifted perspective, a strength gone too far. He also treats Stephen’s ill-considered remarks and behavior charitably, blaming these on the detrimental influence of mean friends. Bloom sees himself as Stephen's personal 'catcher in the rye', and while he’s impotent to prevent the violence visited up young Dedalus late in the story, he does manage to salvage his money and personal effects. He goes beyond this service, however, by paying off Stephen’s brothel debt and even returning his money with interest, becoming his Good Samaritan or, to stick with The Odyssey, his Eumaeus—the loyal swineherd who helps a travel-battered Odysseus upon his long awaited return to Ithaca. Regarding this story’s relationship with The Odyssey, one of the most obvious points of dissonance between the two is with the notion of heroism. In Homer’s epic, we have the quintessential manly-man whose fighting skills and wit are second to none, and who ultimately defeats his enemies via large-scale slaughter. In Ulysses, we have the effeminate, cuckolded social outsider who uses his curious and well-meaning perspective to defeat his enemies with magnanimity. And Joyce doesn’t just invert Homer's idea of a hero, but also Shakespeare's representation of a cuckolded husband. In Shakespeare’s world, the cuckold is someone to be laughed at, the butt of all jokes, and the embarrassment and even the responsibility of the man who couldn't control his wife. Joyce makes cuckolding appear tragic while not overstating its importance, at one point listing dozens of deeds that are worse, including everything from mayhem and contempt of court to criminal assault and manslaughter. The imminent cuckolding pops up in nearly every episode (maybe all of them), hounding and haunting Bloom. There’s no wool over his eyes. He knows and, in a way, allows the act to happen due to his own perceived powerlessness over the situation. In a later episode, I thought that side character Gerty (a stand in for The Odyssey’s Nausicaa) had spied out a sad-looking Stephen Dedalus on the beach, but a few pages later we find out this man with the despondent countenance is actually Bloom. When I realized that Gerty’s pity wasn’t in response to the ennui of an intellectually-tortured dilettante but to a man who was currently experiencing an intimate betrayal, the episode reached a peak of poignancy. And then in true Joycean fashion, he moves right past this moment to one of lust and masturbation, complete with a climax joined by beach fireworks that’s reminiscent of the love scene between Cary Grant and Grace Kelly in Hitchcock’s To Catch a Thief. Where Bloom may get into trouble with readers (and Joyce with censors) is with his lustful, objectifying, and lecherous thoughts. And it’s this frank sexual honesty that’s still surprising and blush-inducing 80 years later. Bloom's specific lustings and yearnings aren’t universal to the male experience, but they are recognizably human in their sui generis imagining. The very specificity of his desire, at times quite blunt and offensive, is certainly what led to the charges of vulgarity and indecency. For it has been common throughout history to treat sexual proclivities not shared by oneself as strange, creepy, and even dangerous. So Bloom is, as he’s referred to in the hallucinatory Circe episode, ‘No Man and Everyman’, at once ordinary and extraordinary. Exhibiting Bloom’s fetishes so completely is what pushes this novel into a realm of reality that was at the time unexplored, and perhaps not yet bested in the fiction that’s followed. Almost as if he sensed that the reader may be building up too much sympathy for Bloom in spite of his occasional creepiness, Joyce decided to bring him down a few notches after his side of the story is finished. We’re reminded that we’ve only been getting half of the picture with his marriage and that two genuine experiences do not always add up to the same interpretation of reality. Once we get to hear Molly’s voice, we find that in certain instances the two of them are simply misinformed about the actions and thoughts of the other. Communication has been damaged, perhaps irreparably. In other cases we get the fullest realization of one of the primary themes in the book: parallax, an astronomic concept that Joyce uses metaphorically throughout the novel. One of the great misfortunes or, depending on the circumstances, boons of humanity is that because we see certain events and ideas from disparate locations with respect to context, intellect, gender, nationality, etc., we perceive these things differently, despite the fact that in reality, outside the world of perception, they are the same. Thus, Bloom and Molly feel that the other is to blame for many of the problems—recognized independently from distinct perspectives—in their marriage. Joyce also employs the concept of parallax stylistically, utilizing different prose formats for each episode and forcing us to confront the ways in which a writer’s stylistic and aesthetic sensibilities influence the way we perceive a narrative and react to it emotionally. So anyway, here we are. Living our lives; reading our books. Experiencing reality through the ineluctable modality of the visible. Does this book have anything to say about the big questions of life and how to derive some meaning from this giant mess? Yes, yes it does. The world of Ulysses revolves around a single Word, a concept that's refracted into many meanings and contexts. Each of the three main characters—Bloom/Odysseus, Stephen/Telemachus, and Molly/Penelope—ultimately recognizes its power, its necessity as the grounding of their lives. But only one of them has the bravery to weather charges of sentimentality and soft-heartedness, to utter the Word in the face of cruel mocking; that's our hero, that ‘conscious reactor against the void incertitude,’ Leopold Bloom. Here on Goodreads I haven’t his courage, and I will name it along with Stephen as ‘the word known to all men.’

If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Leopold Bloom, A Man For All Time: "Ulysses" by James JoyceI started off thinking Ulysses was a pile of incoherent drivel, even though I'd never got past the first page. At 20 I would sit in the uni bar getting pissed and slagging off literary types and lecturers who mentioned it (some of them were pretentious posers; some of them weren't). At 30 I decided to put up or shut up by actually reading it so that I could explain why it was incoherent drivel. The result was that I was drawn into it and have read it five times cover-to-cover. Like a lot of challenging literature, it requires a bit of life experience to get into.More stuff on the other side of the rainbow.

“Every life is in many days, day after day. We walk through ourselves, meeting robbers, ghosts, giants, old men, young men, wives, widows, brothers-in-love, but always meeting ourselves.” 
16 June 1904. Leopold Bloom wanders the streets and places of Dublin. Around him, everything becomes a dream, a menace, an opportunity, a disappointment, a wrath. His mind filled with thoughts of Molly Bloom, his own (very different) Penelope. His path crosses with the ‘’heroes’’ of his own Irish Odyssey. Is he willing to escape the Lestrygonians and the Wandering Rocks? The Sirens and the Cyclops? The traps of Aeolus? The seductive hallucinations of Circe? The playful innocence of Nausicaa?
“History, Stephen said, is a nightmare from which I am trying to awake.”
In the course of one day, from Sandycove to Howth Head, Leopold traces Dublin Bay, at the side of the demons in his head. In a novel that has become a symbol, a shrine of Modernism and the finest Experimental example, Joyce gives us the city adventures of a troubled soul, the interactions of the bourgeois man and the bohemian student. The outsider within the boundaries of a metropolis. The sights, the smells, the sounds of Dublin as Bloom walks on and on, the body of a man in close proximity and struggle within the body of the city that nurtures and swallows its residents. The monologues of desperation and dissolution (or are his illusions fed even more?) give food for the legends that now accompany Bloom’s wanderings. Every building, every local spot becomes a story within the story, a station and a port for Leopold’s withered ship. An Odyssey of Dublin from its pubs and houses to its hospitals and graveyards with rhapsodies of sex, fellowship, trust and betrayal in an era that changes.Banned in the USA and other countries on the grounds of obscenity, Ulysses remains a mystery even today. In our modern era when scenes are reenacted on Bloomsday, James Joyce's masterpiece still troubles, hypnotizes and fascinates us.
“Shakespeare is the happy hunting ground of all minds that have lost their balance.”
My reviews can also be found on https://theopinionatedreaderblog.word...

Now, I have a lot to say. Firstly, my reading of this book has been a secret. I say secret like anyone cared anyway. I didn’t take it out with me, I didn’t put it on Goodreads and I told none of my reader friends. I read it in bed late into the night and early in the morning.I actually started Ulysses to get over heartbreak. I read in a book once about a man who had his heart broken so he translated the whole of Don Quixote to take his mind off things. As a four year relationship of mine ended and I suddenly felt like I was floating in a limbo with all this free time and sudden loneliness. So, on the 31st August, I picked up the hardest and most intimidating thing on my bookcase simply to occupy me, like translating Don Quixote. I had no intention or idea that I would ever finish it – especially not a month later, today, on the 1st October. It’s a shame September doesn’t have 31 days so it could have been the 31st to the 31st of the following month but 31st to the 1st still has a nice ring, I guess.Before I talk about the book itself, I want to say one more thing. During my time at University, I, partly jokingly and partly not, hated on James Joyce. I read Dubliners and didn’t get along with it. My housemate started Ulysses so it became a joke between us to hate on it, and Joyce. It was the usual. God, he’s so arrogant! Who would even read it! It’s not even a novel! You can imagine us, in our early twenties, bumming around our student home, talking badly about Joyce. It’s where Martin Amis went wrong, being too young and talking badly about some literary greats. Some people hold their beliefs about Joyce though, there are some horribly negative (funnily so) reviews on Goodreads for this book. I’ve read them many times, before even reading the first page. We all know the most famous one: Life’s just too damn short to read Ulysses.You can imagine my surprise then, as the pages were disappearing behind me and I wasn’t despising the book, not at all, I was enjoying it. There was a time near the beginning when I considered dropping it. There’s so many other things I want to read, what’s the point in sticking to this? I only picked it up in an emotional low, I didn’t really mean it. But then I thought, no, I’ve picked it up. Let’s see where this goes. Halfway through I was thinking, I want to try and get it done before Christmas. And then the pages kept flashing by. I began enjoying it more and more. Until, I read over one hundred pages yesterday and finished it in bed this morning. My first thought on finishing? I want to go back and read the whole thing again. On reflection, all the most wildest images and scenes are returning to me? It’s like coming out of a stupor; it’s strange reading about one day in Dublin over a whole month of your life. So much happened to me and the characters were reflecting on things I read two weeks ago, but it was only their morning. I bring back the image of Buck Mulligan shaving in the beginning, or picking noses on the beach, or masturbating on the beach, or fireworks, lame legs, men becoming women and giving birth to eight children, dead mothers bursting in manifestation, Stephen getting knocked out in the street, the wandering rocks, the citizen, the phonetic sounds in the beginning of the Sirens… In other words, utter madness. But in all that madness (and me researching alongside the madness to check I’ve understood the madness) the strangest clarity. The strangest sense of understanding without possibly, truly understanding. I recently had a poetry lecture by a lecturer well loved who comes out with the best lines and explanations, you can’t help but write them down. He said (on poetry):“No one asks what classical music means, they just let it happen. People seem to think that they need to beat a confession out of a poem and if it doesn’t confess, it’s a bad poem. I would say to that, you’re just a bad torturer, and a bad reader.”Partly, I think this is applicable to Ulysses. Of course, I’m not saying that if you don’t understand it or don’t read it or dislike it you’re a bad reader. No, never would I say that. But for me, the madness of Ulysses can sometimes be felt or perceived rather than wholly understood. I didn’t understand every single word, far from it, but it didn’t stop me enjoying the book, following the plot and the feelings of the characters. I’ve spent a long time saying many things about Joyce and I take a lot of them back, not all of them, but a lot of them. There’s no denying this novel is one of the greatest things ever written. As an aspiring writer it’s opened a million doorways in one novel about what’s possible. How did this come out of Joyce’s brain? How is this even possible? It seems extraordinary to look at the book now and know what it contains between it’s pages. It’s uncanny. A script within a novel? A question and answer during a novel? Bursting into the dreams and the subconscious of characters, a chapter with no punctuation, and all those made-up words. It is, really, a masterpiece. And if you know me, it’s surprising that I would say that. My favourite two episodes by far were Circe and Ithaca. The book gets considerably both harder and more enjoyable towards the end. Some chapters I didn’t care for as much, but that’s the same with all books, right?So, I haven’t given it five stars because it’s Ulysses. I’ve given it five stars because it is a feat, whether you like it or not. It’s one of the most ambitious things I’ve ever read and Joyce created this, came up this, made this world, this single day, out of only words. It also shows me the power of words, that literally anything is possible. Maybe, only if you’re as smart as Joyce though. To those who want to read it, I would say just try. I’m no holy scholar. I’m just a twenty-two year old guy from the south of England. Let your mind open its pores and let Ulysses in. It’s worth it. It's mad and funny and powerful and original and it has changed my writing too. I now understand how Ulysses has changed the world of novels forever. I just want the whole thing to start over from the beginning. And two months ago I could never imagine reading more than ten pages of it. Ulysses is a masterpiece. Joyce, I’m sorry about what I’ve said in the past. I was wrong. And that’s something I never admit to being: wrong.

Ulises es una obra monumental, un tour de force lleno de conocimientos y narraciones desparramadas e intervenidas por la decadencia y celebración del lenguaje en todas sus formas, una lenta y convulsa degradación hacia los distintos componentes que nos rodean y el latente caos interno del ser. El Ulises no es solo pura literatura, sino que también es una experiencia única. Y así como nadie puede ignorar la importancia del Ulises en la literatura, nadie puede negar la influencia que este libro ha tenido en sus escritores. Ya decía William Gaddis, quien, con tan solo haber leído el monólogo interior de Molly Bloom, se refirió a Joyce como una influencia más allá de la práctica, casi metafísica o religiosa, de las letras.

Obra maestra de la literatura. Y todo pasa en un solo día: el 16 de junio de 1904.Su lectura no es nada fácil, pero, cuando lo terminas, no se te olvidará nunca.A pesar de todo, es un libro que genera mucha controversia.Literature masterpiece. And everything happens in one day: June 16, 1904.Its reading is not easy, but when you finish it, you will never forget it.Despite everything, it is a book that generates a lot of controversy.

When I was in my late teens I purchased a copy of Ulysses on the advice of some acquaintance (now forgotten) who assured me that it was the pinnacle of literary achievement; that it was the greatest novel ever written. For many years that copy has languished on the shelf, its pages gradually yellowing between pristine covers and intact spine. Occasionally, when browsing the shelves I would retrieve it and examine the picture on the cover - an incredibly drab monochrome image of some bridges reflected over a river (Dublin, presumably) - and from this I would attempt to deduce what the novel might be about. The picture evokes old world stagnation, depression and despair, without a hint of romanticism. I imagined grim faces of men enduring hard times, the bitter stink of stale beer in old pubs, a depressing general decay and death. I read random snippets of text - I recall there was mention of a funeral, but otherwise it was mostly confusing passages from which nothing concrete could be gleaned. In all I could not conceive how such a book could sustain itself for over nine hundred pages, let alone stand as the pinnacle of anything. And so each time the book would be returned to the shelf unread. I began to doubt the literary credentials of my acquaintance. But over the years this reputation has only been further reinforced. I learned more about the book - its central theme, its structure, and its author. Eventually, I began to avoid it no longer from indifference but from intimidation. Could I even read and understand such a great and difficult work? In 2015 I read both Dubliners and A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man and did not love either - I realised later that I had made the mistake of reading them too soon (one needs exposure and experience to develop appreciation). So I decided to wait another year before reading Ulysses. I'm glad I did. I won't pretend that I understood even a significant percentage of all the subtle references and stylistic allusions, or that Ulysses was perfectly enthralling all the way through, but it does undoubtedly deserve the high position it enjoys in the literary pantheon. Joyce has taken the concept of the novel, shattered it and recomposed it in eighteen different ways. Is it incredibly pretentious? Yes! Is it sometimes long winded, or boring? Yes! Does it always work, or even make sense? No! But it is at all times thoroughly a work of genius, of limitless ambition, written by someone with supreme ability and complete control over his vision. Its influence has been immense - I can see the precursors of Faulkner, McCarthy, Beckett, Eliot, even Nabokov, refracted in its prism.What is striking about Ulysses is that both because of - and despite - its fragmented nature, it manages to depict characters who are at once transcendent, legendary, but also personal, fragile, and yet who remain entirely coherent. These are characters who are deeply human, and whose ugly natures both in body and mind are on full display. Joyce doesn't shy away from anything - I was aware that the book had been banned on grounds of profanity, but I was still surprised that the book was so unabashedly dirty, and it was not simply a prudish overreaction (as an example, there is, hilariously, a character called Cunty Kate!) Having said that, I am amused by the thought of kids toiling through Ulysses in search of the occasional lewd passage (teenage boys today will never understand the the struggle of previous generations). Personally, I would be quite happy if random obscenities were retrospectively inserted into all kinds of books, if it would help to get people reading literature again.Unfortunately, the fact that people are no longer reading literature makes it harder for a novel like Ulysses to endure. The political concerns of 1904 have faded, and the cultural link with classical Western culture has been all but completely severed in the modern world. Ulysses draws references from mythical Greece, through ancient Rome, and various English literary traditions. It contains passages in at least six languages. It is crammed with obscure meanings, and all these connections are impossible for a modern reader to appreciate in any deep or meaningful way (even a guide which identifies them cannot replace a reading of the source material). And so the barrier to entry for Ulysses will continue to rise. My advice though, to someone who appreciates great literature but is intimidated by all of this - just dive in, there is more than enough brilliance here to make it worthwhile.

100 Words in Search of a Precis (For Those of Us Who Prefer the Short Form of Stimulation)“Ulysses” is a snapshot of one day’s life, with us watching from our couch as if we were watching the Simpsons.Its meaning is a creative joint venture between author and reader and, equally likely, other readers. Bloom sees sex as procreation and a continuation of himself, his journey, his culture, his legacy into the future. Ultimately, "Ulysses" is Joyce's gift to his wife, Nora, the mother of his son (George), the mother of his daughter (Lucia). “Ulysses” is the container, the receptacle (dare I say it, the Holy Grail?), the womb that holds all of this love, and more.Completed Review: August 25, 2011My Review is here:http://www.goodreads.com/story/show/2...Reading NotesMy Reading Notes are here:http://www.goodreads.com/story/show/2...Original Drunken Book Review: March 6, 2011Warning: Some alcoholic substances were consumed by the author of this review. The rest, though regrettably significant in quantity, were consumed by the keyboard of his thirsty desktop computer, which wishes to state on its own behalf and in its own defence that none of the opinions expressed in this review reflect its opinions or state of mind at the time. Things I'm Prepared to Swear AboutI do solemnly swear that I bought this book today, 6 March, 2011.It only cost $16, which was a bargain.It has a different cover, but that's cool, I hope.It's based on the 1960 translation from the English.It's 933 pages long, but the font size is much bigger than I feared, so I'm OK with that.I think of it as value for money in this era when the counter culture has been superseded by the over-the-counter culture (or should that be the uber-counter culture for us Buffy fans?).Upside Down and InvertedI haven't been able to find any inverted commas in my version.This might mean that this book is all action and no dialogue.Or it might mean that they hadn't invented inverted commas in the days of Ulysses.Either that or they were all uninverted then.The March of a Thousand WikipedesI am thinking of writing all of the headings from the Wikipedia article on Ulysses at the beginning of each chapter (in pencil, in case someone edits them while I'm reading the book), because I'm sure it will aid comprehension.My Mother, a Clear Mind and Anthony BurgessMy mother always said that a clear mind aids comprehension.However, I'm not prepared to stop drinking for as long as it takes me to read the "Greatest Novel of the Century" (Anthony Burgess, Observer).I don't know who Anthony Burgess is (I haven't checked his WP article, if he's got one).However, this dude needs to seriously update his opinion.Everybody knows that Ulysses was written last century, der (I've just realised I don't know how to spell "der". If only I could txt in my revu, sir).Another Observation by a Different ObserverYou can bet that my review won't just say I'm an Observer.I'm going to proudly proclaim that I am the 12,975th most popular Good Reads reviewer of the first week of March, 2011 (how contemporary can you get)?Should I Really Be Committed?Well, that's my review of the front and back cover and an arbitrarily chosen page in the middle (unfortunately, for a supposedly dirty book, it didn't fall open on any particular page).I suppose I should commit to reading it now.I must admit that, despite the font size, I still find this task daunting.Everybody I know says that reading Ulysses requires a lifetime of commitment.I don't think I'm ready for a lifetime of commitment.I'm a male, for dog's sake.Conspicuous ImpressivismHowever, I do promise to leave it somewhere conspicuous, where impressionable people (the "impressionista") can see it and be suitably impressionistic.If they say, "Shit, have you read Ulysses?", I'll be honest and say, "Only enough to write a 600 word review for an online journal of opinion read by 13,000 highly opinionated professional opinionists, der".I don't know how many words I've actually written. I can't work out how to use Word Count on Good Reads. But who's counting, we're all readers here!A Show of Great PromiseSo what should I promise?I do solemnly and sincerely swear a lot, but not idly, and in order not to be deemed idol, I promise to read one chapter by the end of this financial year.In fact, I'm feeling kinda sporty now.III, II, I, Blast OffHang on, what's this bit at the beginning with the strange page numbering? lxxv, lxxvi? Roman numerals. I'll skip that. There's a reason why Latin is a dead language.If their words are all cactus, why should their numbers count?Show me the greatest novel of the last century and I'll show you a book that's English. Now, "Stately, plump Buck Mulligan..."Gees, I'm into it already.Completed Review: August 25, 2011My Review is here:http://www.goodreads.com/story/show/2...

Are you ready for it? Are you sure? Okay, well here it is!!http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AuULcV...I finished Ulysses! It took Sir Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay 7 weeks to climb to the top of Mt. Everest. It took me 5 weeks to conquer Mt. Ulysses. After I finished, I threw the book on the table, ran out the door, down Kelly Drive, through the art museum circle, ran up the stairs, started punching at the air and raised my fists in victory!! And the world reJoyced! Okay, so I didn’t really do that, but I did a little victory dance. It looked like this:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s1kVX8...*******To prepare for this journey, I consulted many on-line resources that provided the fundamentals I would need for comprehending this beast of a novel. A friend loaned me his copy of the erudite Heffernan lectures from the “great courses” series. I procured a reading buddy to accompany me on the expedition, acquired a copy of the novel, got lots of rest and had a good, hearty meal, then began my trek.We got off to a quick start. Weather was lovely, supplies plentiful, and the Irishman we brought along for the journey was amusing.Halfway through the expedition, I began to tire. My reading partner could wait for me no longer, so he took off for the summit alone, leaving me with the onus of finding the wherewithal to finish this book on my own. That fucking Irishman started getting on my nerves and my enthusiasm wavered. Yet I continued climbing. At times I thought I was losing my mind. At other times I marveled at how eloquently he spoke about such tasteless things as taking a crap, masturbating in public, having a pissing contest:“The trajectories of their, first sequent, then simultaneous, urinations were dissimilar: Bloom’s longer, less irruent (is that even a word?), in the incomplete form of the bifurcated penultimate alphabetical letter who in his ultimate year at High School (1880) had been capable of attaining the point of greatest altitude against the whole concurrent strength of the institution, 210 scholars: Stephen’s higher, more sibilant, who in the ultimate hours of the previous day had augmented by diuretic consumption an insistent vesical pressure.”Ya don’t say.Somehow I found the resolve to push through all of the nonsense and concentrate on what it is that makes this book a classic: brilliant writing. There is no doubt that James Joyce was a master of his craft. Jimmy, my man. And believe it or not, I’m actually looking forward to reading the rest of his oeuvre (well, minus Finnegan’s Wake. Fuuuuck that). If you’d like to read an actual awesome review of this novel, may I direct you to s.penkevich’s: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/.... He kicked my ass in reading (and reviewing).Potato.

A hypnotic book of books and of history and of minutiae of pretty everything the writer could have thought about at the time. Alternating between the protagonist's bowel movements and finishing... with a multipage so called 'swirl of thoughts of Molly'. Could be used instead of all those 'develop your brain for 10-min a day games'. As such, it's perfect, with all the unwieldy refrences and all kinds of allusions to at least a quarter of the curriculum of classical sourses. As a book, it's meh, since, ok, this guy managed to compile an encyclopedia in the form of a novel! Good for him! But for the reader, is this preferable to a regular encyclopedia? Nope, less informative and everything is just pretty much mentioned in passing or in sketch. Is the novel more compelling? In an OCD way, yep, lots of fun. In a regular reader way, nope.Overall, it's a hoax. A wildly cross-referenced one. Yes, it's useful to see what people manage to get from it or even to understand anything from it, since to do that, one would have to have to be able to get loads of references to completely tangential things. A cool read to brush up one's knowledge and quirkiness of thinking to trace all the allusions tacked onto this Leviathan of a book. The equivalent of a good workout for one's brain. Still, nothing from this makes this 'enigma' of a novel less of a hoax.I'm not sure the writer was the genius he's lauded to be. For one thing, all the allusions are pretty standard for someone who has had classical education (not the thing we get spoonfed these days at our unis!). For another, ok, so this guy refs to, say, 1000+ of varied sources on each page of his scribbles. Yes, it's a cool thing to read. The brain can get a warm up. So, he's a walking encyclopedist of a writer. But, forgive me for asking, where's the genius in all of that? PS. Another thing I believe was too pretentious is the sentences of several thousands words. I don't particularly like writers believing they are too clever to split the trash that pours out of their sick minds not just on paper but into sentences as well. It seemed to me that the writer simply ran out of time and hurried to wrap it all up.The plot could be summed up this way:Q:Of what did the duumvirate deliberate during theiritinerary?Music, literature, Ireland, Dublin, Paris, friendship, woman, prostitution, diet, the influence of gaslight or the light of arc and glowlamps on the growth of adjoining paraheliotropic trees, exposed corporation emergency dustbuckets, the Roman catholic church, ecclesiastical celibacy, the Irish nation, jesuit education, careers, the study of medicine, the past day, the maleficent influence of the presabbath, Stephen’s collapse. (c) And many other things, of course. Just goes to show that when one starts on everything at once, a giant mess follows (just like this book), and they don't investigate even one subject deeply enough to make much sense.Q:What second departure was contemporaneously perceived by him similarly, if differently?A temporary departure of his cat.Why similarly, why differently?Similarly, because actuated by a secret purpose the quest of a new male(Mullingar student) or of a healing herb (valerian). Differently, because of different possible returns to the inhabitants or to the habitation. ...Where were the several members of the company which with Bloom that day at the bidding of that peal had travelled from Sandymount in the south to Glasnevin in the north?Martin Cunningham (in bed), Jack Power (in bed), Simon Dedalus (in bed), Ned Lambert (in bed), Tom Kernan (in bed), Joe Hynes (in bed), John Henry Menton (in bed), Bernard Corrigan (in bed), Patsy Dignam (in bed), Paddy Dignam (in the grave).Alone, what did Bloom hear?The double reverberation of retreating feet on the heavenborn earth, the double vibration of a jew’s harp in the resonant lane.Alone, what did Bloom feel?The cold of interstellar space, thousands of degrees below freezing point or the absolute zero of Fahrenheit, Centigrade or Reaumur: the incipient intimations of proximate dawn.Of what did bellchime and handtouch and footstep and lonechill remind him? Of companions now in various manners in different places defunct: Percy Apjohn (killed in action, Modder River), Philip Gilligan (phthisis, Jervis Street hospital), Matthew F. Kane (accidental drowning, Dublin Bay), Philip Moisel (pyemia, Heytesbury street), Michael Hart (phthisis, Mater Misericordiae hospital), Patrick Dignam (apoplexy, Sandymount). What prospect of what phenomena inclined him to remain?The disparition of three final stars, the diffusion of daybreak, the apparition of a new solar disk.Had he ever been a spectator of those phenomena?Once, in 1887, after a protracted performance of charades in the house of Luke Doyle, Kimmage, he had awaited with patience the apparition of the diurnal phenomenon, seated on a wall, his gaze turned in the direction of Mizrach, the east.He remembered the initial paraphenomena?More active air, a matutinal distant cock, ecclesiastical clocks at various points, avine music, the isolated tread of an early wayfarer, the visible diffusion of the light of an invisible luminous body, the first golden limb of the resurgent sun perceptible low on the horizon.Did he remain? With deep inspiration he returned, retraversing the garden, reentering the passage, reclosing the door. With brief suspiration he reassumed the candle, reascended the stairs, reapproached the door of the front room, hallfloor, and reentered.What suddenly arrested his ingress?The right temporal lobe of the hollow sphere of his cranium came into contact with a solid timber angle where, an infinitesimal but sensible fraction of a second later, a painful sensation was located in consequence of antecedent sensations transmitted and registered. (c) Seriously, if such thing as a Masonic lithurgy exists, this must what it reads like. And don't let me even get started on 'the secret departure of a cat'!Structure for reference.Part I: The Telemachiad (Episodes 1 – 3)Part II: The Odyssey (Episodes 4-15)*Episode 4 – Calypso*Episode 5 - The Lotus Eaters*Episode 6 - Hades*Episode 7 - Aeolus*Episode 8 - Lestrygonians*Episode 9 - Scylla and Charybdis*Episode 10 - The Wandering Rocks*Episode 11 - Sirens*Episode 12 - Cyclops*Episode 13 - Nausicaa*Episode 14 - Oxen In The Sun*Episode 15 – Circe (4 chapters in the audiobook)Part III: The Nostos (Episodes 16 – 18)*Episode 16 – Eumaeus (2 chapters in the audiobook)*Episode 17 – Ithaca (3 chapters in the audiobook)*Episode 18 – Penelope (2 chapters in the audiobook)PS: https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...

This book not only ruined a week at the beach but also damaged my self-esteem. After years of hearing that this was such a difficult work to read, I confidently and pridefully picked it up in an effort to prepare for a trip to Ireland. I finished it out of nothing but determination, feeling my dignity diminish with each incomprehensible page. I have no idea what any of it meant, and I could not find coherence in more than 10 pages at a time. Did I have the thoroughness to investigate literary criticisms to try to understand what I had read? No. I just wanted to get the hell away from it and be done with this humiliating event in my reading life. I made sure to take a picture of myself with the statue of James Joyce in Dublin, to remind myself that I'm not as smart as I thought I was.

O My Blooming MolliesI’m unqualified to review this behemoth, Ulysses. I'd be remiss though, if I didn't--jaw still dropped--mention the last 65 pages, or what is lovingly referred to as "Molly Bloom's Soliloquy." A more accurate title might be 
"Cock and Awe"
. I had no idea what was coming, so to speak. E.g., 
"some kind of a thick crowbar standing all the time he must have eaten oysters I think a few dozen he was in great singing voice no I never in all my life felt anyone had one the size of that to make you feel full up he must have eaten a whole sheep""I liked him like that moaning I made him blush a little when I got over him that way when I unbuttoned him and took his out and drew back the skin it had a kind of eye in it""I often felt I wanted to kiss him all over also his lovely young cock there so simple I wouldnt mind taking him in my mouth if nobody was looking as if it was asking you to suck it so clean and white he looks with his boyish face I would too in 1/2 a minute even if some of it went down what its only like gruel or the dew theres no danger besides hed be so clean compared with those pigs of men"

On Not Reviewing this Book*this review has a lot of swearing in it and for that I apologize. drinking requires apologies*I have about thirty pages, front and back, of notes on this book, I swear. My intentions for the review were epic in proportion: multiple Ian-Graye style headings, a dissertation level of analysis, and a wealth of puns scattered throughout. But of course, books leave their impact in complex and frustrating ways and initially, any semblance of a review was far too intimidating. Then, there arose other reasons—that are personal and embarrassing—as to why I did not even want to look at the damn thing ever again. Certain emotions cling and others fade away and I feel quite fortunate for the ones that have departed and the ones that have yet to leave. I look back on this book with warm nostalgia and a longing for the past.So, perhaps I can write about this book now. Perhaps.On Reviewing this Book: a Personal AnecdoteI read this over the summer of 2012, reading about 100 pages a week. When I fawn over my hardcover copy and admire the eye-patched picture of Joyce, memories spring up, automatically. I reminisce about the swimming pool my friend manages and my free-access to it summer-long. The months of June and July were probably the hottest I’ve ever experienced in Colorado. So in between the days I worked—outside, wedding services, black clothes, 13 hour shifts—I would waste an entire day at the pool, reading Ulysses and jumping into the cool, refreshing water every thirty minutes. This is life, I tell you. Beautiful warmth, great literature, and water slides. But most of all, at the end of each week, I got to meet with the most beautiful girl I’d ever met at a coffee shop and talk about the book. The first day we met to read the book was June 16th, 2012. Every conversation hit the “standing-up and nearly screaming” type of excitement that only I achieve when talking about the things I love the most. Only with literature have I experienced that epiphanic, everything fits together type of religious sensation. Ulysses delivered that in droves. Nearly every page is its own work of art that deserves to be read and cherished. My Joyceful friend knew a staggering amount about the Bible and Greek Myths, so the over-abundance of references that I missed, she would point out and the over-abundance of theories that I spun, worked in tandem with information we gathered. Imagine a 20 year old, slightly pretentious-looking college student, leaping out of his chair, exclaiming his excitement for all the coffee house patrons to hear and imagine the blonde-hair girl opposite, laughing and smiling at the response.Joyce Has So Much Fucking Swagger, Jay-Z Ain’t Got Shit on HimI remember reading a line in Ulysses that proclaims that Ireland doesn’t have its masterpiece yet. . . yet! The book went airborne and crashed against my wall. That pretentious and self-satisfied fuck! I had never been so pissed at an author for intruding on the text. I finally got over myself and continued reading. It took maybe three pages of Siren’s section to realize that yes, Joyce totally earns that intrusion about masterpieces. The writing is so frequently virtuosic and dazzling and well-written that it’s hard to not to think about how much of a genius Joyce was and wonder how the hell he ever got so good at using the english language.He does just about every imaginable thing a person could do to the language while still managing to make you laugh/cry/scream in joy.EmpiricismI had, at the time, what I thought to be some brilliant reading of the whole book and how Joyce incorporates sense experience in his writing to create a continuous stream-of-consciousness that is always correcting itself and rewriting itself, as the act of conscious experience is an act of writing and rewriting narratives to make sense of the outer world, an idea that I copped from Daniel Dennett’s Consciousness Explained who copped it from Derrida or something. There are jaw-dropping scenes that incorporate the characters’ sensual experiences, their thoughts about that experience and the memories that constantly inform their interpretations of those original experiences all in a single moment. The third chapter of the book constitutes what I deem to be (actually my literature teacher deemed it so but I will just use it to sound smart) one of the few true stream-of-conscious-thought pieces of writing. Loves loves to fucking love loveWhat a classic line. And bully for Joyce for pouring such sentimentality into his masterpiece of high-brow literature. Did you know there’s essentially a romance novella written in the middle of this book? I bet you didn’t know that. And goddamn if it isn’t better than any romance novel I’ve read. Joyce probably made a list of things that he wanted to “take care of” as far as writing the book was concerned. And over the seven years (?) it took him to write the book, I’m sure Joyce ticked off several items off the list, and with each, he chuckled to himself and went back to fucking shit up with his typewriter.The Nightmare of HistorySpeaking of classic lines. I thought a lot of about the history being a nightmare. You know, towards the end, Joyce described Bloom and Stephen as somnambulists (sleepwalkers) and my mind exploded—i.e. the whole book was the nightmare the characters were trying to wake up from.Then I thought about how much Joyce references works of other literature (especially Shakespeare, holy shit there’s a lot of shakespeare in this thing). And Stephen struggles to be a writer because he can’t stop thinking about how his work resembles works from the past, from history. And my mind exploded.I think about how history is a nightmare, yet the ending, the beautiful, bittersweet ending, jumps into the past. Joyce embraces the past at the end, but not after making the present moment so beautiful.The Present, The Everyday, The EpiphanyMy modern short story teacher once described narratives with “epiphanic realizations” as Joycean. I think I know why. Since history is what haunts Joyce’s novel, he tries to show the present moment for all the beauty that it is. This is why the book takes place over one day. He is trying to show how much beauty and meaning is packed into the everyday mundane. People drink at pubs, people go to funerals, people flirt with other people. People give birth. Don’t even get me started on the Oxen of the Sun aka “the greatest thing done with the english language, it’s fucking demonstrable, it is”. Okay, here’s the deal. There’s a girl giving birth upstairs, so Joyce decides to give birth to the english language. He writes in Angelo fucking Saxon and then works his way up through all the evolutions of the language until he returns to modern day vernacular. No one had ever even gotten close to doing that kind of ventriloquistic madness and no one ever will. David Mitchell is a pussy.Okay I’m sorry about the D. Mitch comment. That was messed up. I still love him.Anyway, nearly everything in the novel is connected by this idea, that the present moment ought to be celebrated. It gives justification for all the literary tricks within. All the literary tricks are meant to make the mundane, beautiful. Is that Bloom walking into a bar? Or is it a retelling of Odysseus sailing past the sirens, being pulled in by their beautiful song (transposed *(pun fucking intended)* in Joyce’s poetic prose). The entire section is first of all, really beautiful and second of all, filled with music imagery. Then there’s this blind character who keeps “tap tap tapping” around as we, the reader, “tap tap tap” around the prose to get our bearings, trying out sounds in order to orient ourselves in a setting, reinterpreting the sense data to create narrative and Joyce uses the sounds of music to convey this in order to show how a blind person creates a narrative out of life with sound. And now we’ve gone full circle, connecting back to one of my first points. Boom bitch!James Joyce is the Original Based God and Lil ‘b is just his Lowly FollowerSwag Swag Swag Swag Swag Swag Swag Swag Swag Swag Swag Swag Swag Swaghttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukhk_I...Swag Swag Swag Swag Swag Swag Swag Swag Swag Swag Swag Swag Swag SwagPuns out the WaazooI won’t even pretend to make any puns in this review. I would just fail under the punning prowess that is the Joyceman.There’s a part where Bloom orders a sandwich and he thinks about how the ham sandwich ended up on his plate with the ingredients “bred and mustered there”. Obviously to talk about the deplorable state of factory farming. Because, obviously Joyce was a vegetarian and animal-rights activist. Only in my deluded readings of his book probably.A Failed Love PoemThe fair, misses that I met with was named Erin Greenhalgh. I only say this because flip to page 123 and you’ll understand.Erin Green(halgh), gem of the silver sea,so inadequate to depict you as merely pretty—you leave far behind the likes of Remedios the beauty—confounding my inane iambs and cleverly-metered trochee.Trying to capture the experience of your being with me,renders all dewey-eyed ideals into weakening words in atrophy.Such is the attempt to capture every single quiddityof the deft, green beauty in the gem of the sea.Still as I navigate thru currents and against the breezeI succumb to the inevitable tide, ineluctable in its emotional pleas.Waves crashing within, any any sight, they screamin a sense, blinding all thoughts, its power must be.So to pen down these things, only things it relieves,still remains the wonderment inherent in thee.Unable to continue in second-person flattery,I’ll retreat back to third, with what I remember, a story.Once intoned in her words so suffused in poetry,that in the search for meaning, language is a commodity.But I hope this is not any purchase, in dollar or penny,of the uncommodifiable desires of human feelings, plenty.So to the face of a thousand ships, here’re my words, not many:I worry about the eventual demise of our proximity.Winding towards its end, our summer Odyssey,on the cusp of being too trite and not cliché hopefully!Never let it die; our interactions are so lovelyand let’s keep this skiff abreast the waves chatting literature and life over coffee.-SM

انا بحب الرواية دي من ساعة ما شوفت صورة لمارلين مونرو وهي بتقرأها , وأنا بحب مارلين بصراحة فحبيت اللي بتقرأه : لكن وأنا بقرأ الرواية دي كان شكلي عامل كدا :ت.إس.إليوت في معرض حديثه عن هذه الرواية بيقول:عن طريق استخدام الأسطورة و استغلال التوازي المستمر بين المعاصرة والقِدَم , يتبع السيد جويس طريقة يجب على الآخرين تقليده فيها ... و هي ببساطة طريقة للتحكم والتنظيم و إضفاء شكل و أهمية على مشهد العبث و الفوضى الطاغي الذي يمثله التاريخ المعاصر لو قُدر لنص أدبي أن يقدس , لكانت عوليس هي الرواية المختارة .طب بالله عليكم , دا يتقال عنها إيه , ولا تتوصف بإيه ؟ دي مش رواية مكتوبة , دا عمل أدبي منحوت , منحوت من صخر صلد , الكاتب مكنش بيكتب مجرد رواية أدبية يُخلد بها إسمه , لأ , دا بيكتب عقاب , عقاب أدبي لكل واحد تسول له نفسه إنه يفتكر فيها العظمة والابداع , ليه كدا يا جيمس ؟ ليه كدا يا حبيبي , دا إحنا غلابة والمصحف , عملنا لك إيه علشان تعمل فينا كدا , وكله بمزاجك , عايز تقرأها إقرأها , مش عايز , لا يكلف الله نفسًا إلا وسعها . الرواية اللي ممكن متفهمش منها حاجة , لكن مجرد ما تنتهي منها هتلاقيها بقت جزء منك (وكنا بنتريق على هاروكي موراكامي إن قططه بتسمع مزيكا , دا إحنا غلابة ) , الرواية المتاهة , اللي لو فلتت منك في جزئية هتظل حبيس صفحاتها وعقلك متعلق بها .بص يابني : في نوع من الأدب , حلو وسهل وظريف , والأديب من دول لا بيتعب دماغه ولا بيتعب دماغك معاه , بيقدمك العمل سهل وبسيط , يعني من الآخر بيقدم لك الأكلة جاهزة وانت تتذوق وتمزز فيها براحتك , الأدب دا حلو , حلو خالص , حلو جدا .وفي بقى نوع تاني من الأدب : هو بيتخطى مفهوم الأدب , بيتخطى كل الحدود وكل المعايير , ليصنع هو حدود ومعايير لا يقترب منها أحد (واللي عايز يجرب يقرب هو بقى ) , يعني الكاتب لا بيجيب لك أكل ولا حتى مكونات , وبيقول لك اشبع أنت يا حلو , نوع الكاتب فيه بيخترع حياة وعالم , عالم يخلقه هو , وينسج تفاصيله و أحداثه وشخصياته , كلها من خياله , كلها من ابتكاره , ابن الظالم اخترع لغة , أول لنقل إنه اخترع استخدام خاص للغة عريقة , بيعلم على الانجليز . النوع التاني قد لا يجد انتشار في زمن معين , ولا يجد اهتمام ولا حتى شعبية , ولكنه يضمن خلود وعظمة لا يقربها أي خلود آخر , عظمة الآلهة الأدبية المقدسة , كآلهة الأولمب العظماء .المهم : نحن أمام عمل وُصف على أنه الأعظم على مر العصور , وحتى هذا الوصف لا يفيه عقه من العظمة والابداع , فهذا عمل لا يشببه أي عمل آخر , ولا يقترب من عظمته أي رواية أخرى , رواية ؟ وهل هي رواية ؟ و أي رواية تلك التي تحتاج إلى كامل خلايا عقلك لكي تندمج معها وتفهمها , لا , أنت تحتاج لكامل عقلك لكي لا تفقده ويتشتت منك , فتشعر بجنون وحيرة لا يضاهيها حيرة , منطقي جدا وأنت بتقرأ الرواية دي إنك فجأة تقفلها وتبدأ من أول وجديد , منطقي إنك تقرأها بصوت عالي , ومنطقي إنك تلاقي نفسك بتضحك بصوت عالي وتعمل حركات غريبة بوشك , رواية غريبة , هتعمل علاقة معها كعلاقة حب بينك وبين فتاة , هتندمج فيها بلا أي مبرر منطقي , وهتلاقي صعوبة وتعقيد مريب لكن مش هتقدر تتركها , هي سحر البيان , وسحر الكلمة وسحر التشكيل , إيه دا , أي روح ملعونة تلبست جويس , وأي واد جن قام بزيارته ليخرج علينا بهذا النص , أي ألعاب لعينة مارسها هذا الكاتب , لكي يتسرب إلى عقولنا بهذا الشكل ويترك علينا هذا السحر .كارل يونغ كان بعت رسالة لجويس بيقول له فيها : (« يوليسيسكَ يا سيّدي قد قدّمتِ العالمَ على أنّه معضلة سيكولوجيّة مُقْلِقة، و التي قد عُنيتُ بها مرارًا بسلطةٍ مفترضة على الأمور النفسية.يوليسيس تثبت أنها مثل ثمرة جوزٍ صلبة بشكل مفرط. كتابك بالإجمال قد وهبني لانهايةً لمشكلة كنتُ قد أطلتُ التفكير فيها طيلة ثلاث سنوات حتى نجحت في أن أضع نفسي في مواجهةٍ معها. لكن، لابد لي أن أخبرك أني أشعر بالإمتنان العميق تجاهك- تماما مثل ما هو تجاه تحفتك العظيمة لأنني تعلمتُ الكثير بسببها. من الممكن أني لستُ متأكدًا لو أني قد إستمتعت بها؛ لأنها قصدتْ أن تكون محطّمةً للأعصاب للغاية، و و للمادة الرمادية(أحد مكونات الجهاز العصبي). و لا أدري أيضًا إذا ما كان سيعجبك ما قد كتبته عن يوليسيس؛ لأنه يساعدُ في أن أخبر العالم كم هو شعور الملل الذي كنتُ أشعر ) ودا يونغ , يبقى إحنا الغلابة يجرى لنا إيه ..الفكرة دائمًا في إبداع الإنسان , وعقله الغريب المعقد , ورحه المقدسة القادرة على إثارة الدهشة دائما ,وحياة الإنسان البالغة البساطة والتعقيد في آن واحد , يوم واحد , يوم واحد هو زمن الرواية دي , الرواية اللي حيرت الملايين وقامت من أجلها الدنيا ولم تقعد من يومها , زمنها يوم واحد , بكل تفاصيله وشخصياته و حكاياته , بكل الفكر المنتشر فيها , بكم المعلومات الرهيبة المذكورة فيها , كل دا في يوم واحد , يوم واحد يا مؤمن , خلانا نعيش أيام من المعاناة في مجرد قراءتها , ما بالك الكاتب ؟لازم تعيش في 16 يونيو دا التفاصيل كلها , لازم عليك تعرف ليوبولد بلوم ومراته واصحابه وافعاله , لازم تتقمص ذكرى اليوم كاملة . الخيال يا خوانا , لازم يكون عدك خيال جامح ليقترب (مجرد اقتراب من خيال الرواية وكاتبها ) تيار الوعي وسنينه السودا , ماله الأدب المبتذل ولا الأدب المريح المفهوم , اللي تقرأ له ولا كأنك قرأت حاجة , لازم نقرأ لحاجة دسمة يعني , لازم تيار الوعي دا , اللي مطلوب منك تركيز 1000% علشان الرواية لا تفلت منك , وتحاول تفهمها , رغم إن الفهم غير مهم في الأساس , لأن الرواية قبل أن تخاطب عقلك , تخاطب روحك و نفسك الدفينة .اللغة : أنا سمعت كثير عن ألاعيب جيمس جويس اللغوية , سمعت عن حس دعابته العالي المذهل , لكن مجرد ما بتواجه نص كدا بتقول إن أكيد في حاجة مش طبيعية , الكاتب أيرلندي يكره الانجليز , فأراد ان يتفوق عليهم , وهل يوجد تفوق أعلى من أن تتفوق على خصمه في ملعبه ؟ ولهذا أبدع جويس في استخدام اللغة الانجليزية ولكن ليس ذلك الاستخدام العادي التقليدي , بل هو استخدام جديد سُجل باسمه هو ولم يوجد بعد من يجيد استخدامه أو حتى تقليده , كم الدراسات اللي اتعملت على الوراية وكم المحاولات لفك طلاسيمها وفي النهاية تبوء كلها بالفشل . كل فصلة وكل حرف وكل سطر وكل جملة , لها أهميتها , ولذلك نجد أن مشاكل الطبعات لا تنتهي .الترجمه : لنا أن نتخيل مترجم مثل د\ طه محمود طه , يفني من عمره 20 عام بالتمام والكمال لكي يخرج لنا هذا النص بلغتنا العربية , لازم نشكر هذا الرجل من صميم قلبنا , ونشفق عليه لكم المعاناة اللي أكيد واجهها أثناء ترجمته , وهو في الأصل كان يخطط لعمل دراسة عن ألدوس هكسلي ولكنه وقع في سحر جويس وعوليسه ليتفرغ لها , ويقوم بزيارة الأماكن المذكورة في محاولة منه ليتقرب من روحها .الرواية العظيمة بحق , و واحدة من الروايات الفارقة في تاريخ الرواية , فنقول ما قبل عوليس وما بعدها , النص الغريب المعقد الصعب الساحر , النص الذي يسيطر عليك بكل تفاصيله , قد لا تجد فيه متعة ما , ولكنك ستجد فيه روح ادبية قادرة على الخلود .

What I've discovered about myself from reading Ulysses:1. I am good for only one "major" read in a year. I had set out wanting to read this and Proust this year. Alas, I was only able to make it through Ulysses.2. It's okay to have another along to help you out the first time through. In this case, it was Blamire's The New Bloomsday Book. 3. I realize that Joyce was, indeed, a literary genius. I can see why some writers would quit writing after reading Ulysses, as he is a master of the written word. His flitting from voice to voice and style to style without losing the narrative is proof enough. That said, there are moments of tedium, some of them many pages long, that rival and exceed even the great Moby Dick for sheer boredom. When he's on, he's on, when he's off, he's drop-dead boring . . . and no academic pretense that you want to learn something about whaling (which you really don't, let's face it) will save you this time.4. I realize that Joyce plays domestic angst in an excruciatingly understated way. He creates excellent tension by what he does not say, as much as by what he does say.5. The funeral/underworld scene is an astounding piece of work. I felt sadness, pity, annoyance, and laughed aloud, all at once. Such a mixing bowl of emotions in that section. My innards are all tumbled around after that, like I don't know which way is, emotionally speaking, up.6. Anyone who coins the acronym "K.M.R.I.A" deserves a statue. Or did he coin the term? Either way, he inspired The Pogues to use it in a song, which deserves a statue in its own way.7. Jest on. Know thyself. may be all you need to know about Joyce and the notion of fiction as autobiography.8. I love the "sirens" section, with its sing-song rich voice, which feels like it was written in the shadow of Finnegan's Wake. It's one of my favorite places to be a brain.9. I need to read all of Finnegan's Wake.10. "-Tis a custom more honored in the breach than in the observance." may be the most clever pun I've ever heard. Ever.11. I love the sections where Joyce is seemingly channeling Lovecraft, then Dunsany, then Wavy Gravy.12. The sentence: "The heaventree of stars hung with humid nightblue fruit." may be one of my favorite sentences of all time.13. Good golly, Miss Molly!14. I am lost and found somewhere betwixt Dedalus and Bloom, yet unbounded by one, the other, or both, inside their circle, outside their confines, them, yet me. Joyce's words, Dedalus' and Bloom's actions, my brain, my past, my hopes, my frustrations, my feelings.15. Yes. Yes.

Και όμως, ΝΑΙ. Τολμώ να το πω. Μετά από τρεις αποτυχημένες προσπάθειες και κάτι παραπάνω από τρεις μήνες προσήλωσης και εξαντλητικής επιμονής, τα κατάφερα και το τελείωσα! Προσοχή: δεν το ξεπέταξα. Διάβασα κεφάλαια ξανά και ξανά, μόνο το τελευταίο μου πήρε κοντά μία εβδομάδα (5.000 λέξεις ασφυκτικά κλεισμένες σε 8 ΜΟΝΑΧΑ προτάσεις ΧΩΡΙΣ ΤΕΛΕΙΑ!) ενώ δεν θα πρέπει να παραλειψω πως δίχως τον οδηγό ανάγνωσης του Μαραγκόπουλου που χρησιμοποιούσα παράλληλα δε θα έφτανα ούτε καν στη μέση. Η μέθοδος που ακολούθησα πήρε την τελική της μορφή μετά την 3η ραψωδία. Διάβαζα κάθε κεφάλαιο χωριστά, χωρίς τις παραπομπές του. Μετά διάβαζα τις παραπομπές πάνω στο κείμενο (άλλες καίριες, άλλες όχι), ενώ με το που τελείωνα κάθε ραψωδία έπιανα τον οδηγό Ανάγνωσης και διάβαζα την ερμηνεία της χωρίς τις παραπομπές, και στο τέλος τις παραπομπές σκέτες, όχι πάνω στο κείμενο.Ο Οδυσσέας είναι ένα τρομερά μα τρομερά όμως απλό στην πλοκή του βιβλίο. Διηγείται μία μέρα του Λεοπόλδου Μπλουμ, την 16η Ιουνίου (μία μέρα μετά τα γενέθλιά μου, οκ, δεν είμαι του 1904 το δέχομαι...) γνωστή σήμερα και ως Bloomsday. Ο κύριος Μπλουμ ξυπνάει και περιπλανιέται στους δρόμους του Δουβλίνου επισκεπτόμενος διάφορα μέρη μέσα στο 24ωρό του μέχρι να ξαναγυρίσει σπίτι του. Οτι δηλαδή κάναμε, κάνουμε και θα κάνουμε όλοι μας κάθε μέρα μέχρι το τέλος. ΑΥΤΟ. Ο Τζους όμως δε μένει απλά σε ΑΥΤΟ. Γιατί ο Τζόυς είναι μία ΙΔΙΟΦΥΙΑ.Ο Οδυσσέας είναι ένα τρομερά δύσκολο στην σύλληψή και στην εκτέλεσή του βιβλίο. Ο Συγγραφέας λατρεύει τον Όμηρο, έχει μελετήσει σε βάθος το έργο του και έχει ταυτίσει αυτή την ΜΙΑ μέρα του Κου Μπλουμ, με τα ΔΕΚΑ χρόνια που έκανε ο Οδυσσέας να επιστρέψει στην Ιθάκη του, στο γιο του, στον πατέρα του, στην Πηνελόπη του. Τα εφτά (για άλλους οχτώ, για άλλους δέκα) χρόνια που πέρασε ο Ομηρικός Υπερήρωας στην αγκαλιά της Καλυψώς τιμωρημένος από τον Ποσειδώνα επειδή τύφλωσε τον γιο του Πολύφημο, κλείνονται στο πρωτότυπο κείμενο του Ομηρικού Έπους μέσα σε ορισμένες μονάχα αράδες. Το ακριβώς αντίθετο συμβαίνει στο Τζουσικό κείμενο. Μία ΜΟΝΟ ημέρα, ένα 24ωρο που μοιάζει ατέρμονο, μαρτυρικό, κυριολεκτικά ατελείωτο χρειάζεται 1.000 σελίδες για να χωρέσει μέσα τους. Τόσο πολύ μετράει αυτή η μέρα, η κάθε μέρα για τον Τζόυς. Τόσο χρόνο όσο παίρνει στους περισσότερους για να το διαβάσουν τον Οδυσσέα του, τόσο χρόνο όσο διαρκεί μία ολόκληρη ζωή.Το κείμενο είναι στριφνό, έχοντας διαβάσει το "ο Μαιτρ και η Μαργαρίτα" του Μπουλγκάνοφ μέσα στο καλοκαίρι, και έχοντας δυσκολευτεί πολύ, πλέον πιστεύω πως συγκρινόμενο με τον Οδυσσέα είναι βατό! Ο Τζόυς είναι ο απόλυτος λόγιος, δεν κάνει όμως επίδειξη ύφους, το έργο του είναι προιόν βαθιάς γνώσης και ο ίδιος δε μοιάζει να γράφει με απώτερο σκοπό να καρπωθεί τον έπαινο των αναγνωστών του. Γράφει με αυτό τον μαγικό και πρωτόγνωρο στον αναγνώστη τρόπο, απλά και μόνο επειδή μπορεί.Και το τελικό αποτέλεσμα δεν τον δικαιώνει απλά, μιάς κ με βεβαιότητα πλέον μπορούμε και μιλάμε για έναν ανυπέρβλητο συγγραφικό άθλο, μία μοναδική εμπειρία για αυτόν που έχει αποφασίσει πραγματικά να ασχοληθεί με το μαγικό και πολυδιαφημισμένο αυτό κείμενο, που δε θα καμφθεί από τις μυθικές σε σημεία δυσκολίες της δομής, της γραφής και της συγγραφικής τεχνικής του όλου έργου. Ο αναγνώστης ταξιδεύει παράλληλα με τον κύριο Μπλουμ, παράλληλα με τον Οδυσσέα, η Ιθάκη του είναι αυστηρά προσωπική του υπόθεση, αλλά αναμφίβολα κάπου υπάρχει, κάποια είναι, και η περιπλάνησή του μέχρι στο τελος να την αντικρύσει στον ορίζοντα δεν ήταν, δεν είναι, και ποτέ δεν πρόκειται να γίνει μία εύκολη κατάκτηση.Δηλώνω τεράστιος, αιώνιος, ισόβιος θαυμαστής, το συνιστώ και θα το συνιστώ στο διηνεκές ανεπιφύλακτα.

I don't feel really worthy to review this book. It's Ulysses. It's one of the greatest modern novels in the English language. It's a love letter to it and a history of it and has a sick, twisted relationship with it's readers and has actually driven people to a lifetime of studying just a few chapters of it. I know I missed a thousand things in every ten pages I read, and if I went back again, I'd see things completely differently.And nonetheless, I did read it, and I feel the need to mark that down because it was an accomplishment for me. And it was deeply beautiful in many parts. James Joyce was capable of prose that will bring tears to your eyes. Perhaps it's about a repulsive subject, or a funny one, but you'll find yourself hugging the book to you as much as throwing it across the room. Or at least, I did.People often grow attached to particular chapters in this book, since it is so large. It is easier to connect with just one particular vignette of the day. The chapters can largely stand on their own, with some plot threads as background. My personal favorite was "Scylla and Charybdis," based off an episode in the Odyssey where Odysseus has to choose between him and all his crew going down in a black hole in the sea, or a sea monster that will eat most of his crew, but leave Odysseus alive to continue his journey. They spend it in a library, talking about theories of Hamlet and Shakespeare, while one of the main characters (Stephen Daedalus, for those of you who have read Portrait of the Artist As a Young Man) fights with himself inwardly. It's so beautiful, and in a novel of obscurity, introducing Shakespeare was my way of seeing the message.I have to say, though, for all it's complexity, the message is as Hallmark as you can get. Love, love, love, baby.

Wow. I guess this is the sort of book that people either love or hate. In all honesty, I didn't know what to expect when I picked up Ulysses. I had just read "A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man" some months back and I thought Ulysses would follow a similar format. Well, Ulysses didn't even follow any clear format! Why I enjoyed this book so much is because I'm a lover of words and of the English language in general, and this book used such a wide variety of words. I don't think I even understood half of what was going on in the book, yet I still liked it. It also had it's share of racism, including anti-Jewish sentiment and the use of the n-word, bad grammar (deliberately of course, at times), made-up words and abruptly ending sentences.The magic of this book, in my eyes, is you never know what you're going to read next. It might be a poetic passage (the passages that describe Bloom's love of water are great), a series of questions and answers, a hallucination set in the form of a play, some Latin, some French, Spanish, Greek, a reference to ineluctable modality....you just never know!I could probably go on and on about this book. I will end by saying I gained a lot of respect for Joyce's genius during the reading of this book. He had so much knowledge and you can tell he put his soul into this book. I don't think there will ever be another book quite like it. This is definitely a book I need to get a copy of in order to re-read it again and again.

Well, where do I even start with this one? Crazy. Yep. Ambitious and showy off. Definitely. Genius. Certainly. Bloody infuriatingly difficult to read. You bet. Worth it. Or course. Enjoyable. In the best masochistic way possible.Edit - Just finished my second read, this time on audiobook. It's still mad and confusing, but was also a lot of fun to listen to.

Δύσκολο!Πολύ δύσκολο!Πάρα πολύ δύσκολο!Αξίζει,όμως,να διαβαστεί από όλους αυτούς που θεωρούν τον εαυτό τους εραστή της λογοτεχνίας.Θεωρώ πως πρέπει να υπάρχει σε μια,καλά,ενημερωμένη βιβλιοθήκη.Είναι ένα βιβλίο που,αν και δύσκολο,θα σε ανταμείψει με αυτά που έχει να σου δώσει.Μην διστάσετε καθόλου.Διαβάστε το χωρίς δεύτερη σκέψη!

5 aya yaklaşan okuma sürecimin sonuna geldim. Bir nevi rahatladığımı hissettim aslında. Zira başlarda çok güçlük çektim. Kitabın kendine has tarzı, dili, konusu başlı başına yorucu üstelik hacmi de fazla; insanı ümitsizliğe sevk edebiliyor. Bu esnada etrafımdaki insanlar benim zorluk çektiğimi görünce kimi zaman;"Belki de bu kitap orjinal dili için güzeldir" dediler. Bazen bu fikri benimsediğim zamanlar oldu. Buna rağmen benim okuma şevkinden vaz geçmemem Nevzat Erkmen sayesindedir. Böylesine güç bir metni yalnızca aslına sadık kalarak çevirmeye teşebbüs etmemiş; bu metni Türkçe dilinin doğasına da uygun hale getirmiş. Orjinal metinde "köylü şivesi" varsa Türkçe köylü şivesiyle çevirmiş, orjinal metindeki söz oyunlarını Türkçe söz oyunlarına dönüştürmüş; en akılda kalıcı örneği; "en neşeli renkler mor ve kırmızıdır çünkü "MorAl" gibi". Orjinal metinde ağdalı, kullanımdan düşmüş, kıyıda köşede kalmış kelimeler tercih edildiyse, Türkçe metninde de bu tip kelimeleri bulup kullanmış. Bu yüzden bu kitabın belki de Ulysses okumak dışında, Nevzat Erkmen okumak olarak kalacağını söyleyebilirim belleğimde.Bu güç süreçte her durum güncellememde burada "beğen" butonuna tıklayarak beni teşvik ettiğini düşündüğüm arkadaşlarıma ayrıca teşekkür ediyorum. Ulysses okuyanlara, bunu anlayarak, çözümleyerek okuyanlara; hatta üstüne bir de uzun uzun inceleme yazanlara hayranlığımı elden bırakamıyorum.Ulysses'i okuduğumu söyleyebilir, iddia edebilirim.Lakin Ulysses'i anladığımı söyleyemem. Henüz. ve pek çok başka kitapta da olduğu gibi.

Eh?

Διαβάστε και την κριτική μου στα Ελληνικά στις βιβλιοαλχημείες.This was like climbing a mountain and now I feel the breeze which is so sweet and I can finally rest, enjoying the scenery and vistas and landscapes around me.-So did you like it?-That's a hard question. Well, I read this book the first time with the help of an audiobook which was more of a radio-play. It was a marathon production transmitted uninterrupted on Bloomsday (04/06) in 1982 to commemorate the centenary of Joyce's birth. With more than five narrators and 20+ voice actors it felt like listening to a radio-play not just an audiobook.It was produced by RTÉ (Radio and Television of Ireland). And here's the link.It enlivened the whole book, and I can say I enjoyed it both times, but of course I couldn't understand everything I read.-So how much did you understand from it?-It is a book which the more you read from it the more you understand it. You are more familiar with it every time you return to it.The story sounds easy. It's the story of one's man (Leopold Bloom) and his mini Odyssey around Dublin. It goes like this:-1] I, Stephen Dedalus, am in this tower and there's an usurper, an Englishman, I don't like him here, and now I have to teach, and those students bore me 2] they don't know how Pyrrhus died, the ignoramuses, and I have to meet my employer that old turtle and the way he talks going on and on bores me to hell 3] and now I need to relax, will I? by the sea, there's something in my nose, I need to take it out, and I really need to piss. 4] It's morning and I, Leopold Bloom, have to make breakfast to my wife like every other man in Dublin #not; what's up kittie, are you hungry? I need to take a shit, I'll take the newspaper with me and let's hope I'm not constipated again. 5] I need to buy some soap, lemon-scented, I don't remember; and I have to destroy this letter too, before going to the funeral. 6] Oh, poor Mr Dignam he was a good man, that's what we always say when someone dies. 7] Today the newspaper's headquarters were noisy and I wasn't able to work properly. I need to fix an error on an advertisement, something about keys or Keyes. not sure. 8] The way people eat and suck oysters and lard disgusts me. Oh, I hate dirty eaters. 9] I want to visit the museum again to see the statues and then go to the National library to ask for something. 10] Some people say that someone important is visiting the city today, well, I don't give a rat's ass about who he is. 11] I really enjoyed my time with Simon Dedalus at the Hotel's bar enjoying our drinks but I was shocked 12] when that bloody racist accused me of being a filthy Jew and I told him that his God, Christ was a Jew too, and a carpenter, and he was angry and he threw my a biscuit tin, the idiot. 13] That girl there at the beach is so hot, I need to jerk off badly. Wait a minute; she has a lame leg, O! anyway, now I need to wipe up the mess I did. 14] I went into a maternity ward and it was really noisy and the nurses were angry 15] and then I met Simon Dedalus 's son, Stephen Dedalus and I saved him from spending too much money to whores and also I again saved him from a bloody English soldier, although he was punched once. 16] I took him with me for a cocoa drink in a sailors' shelter and an old man was bragging about his travels. I believe he was a lying Baron Munchausen. 17] We finally arrived home, had tea or coffee I don't remember, we pissed together in the garden, his piss' arc was wider and faster, and then he left, I went upstairs and saw my wife sleeping. I kissed her yellow-mellow-melon-buttocks and slept. 18] What is he planning to achieve by kissing my buttocks? All I need is sex, and a banana in my vagina, but I'm afraid it'll break inside me, I need to suck a sailor or a university student. I wonder if that young poet Stephen Dedalus is hung like a horse. I'd like to suck him too, but I love my husband, yes, I do, yes.It might sound easy but it's not.Every chapter/episode has a different kind of technique some are written in a stream-of-consciousness style (3, 4, 18), episode 15 is written as a play, episode 11 feels like music, more sounds than meaning, episode 14 develops like the English language from Old English to Shakespeare's English, to present time's jargon and slang, and chapter 18 is a loooong monologue by Molly Bloom, Leopold's wife. Not a single punctuation mark (apart from the final full-stop), not a single paragraph break, a loooong 62-page sentence.I read this mammoth book in February 2017 for the first time.I and a friend of mine at the end of 2019 we made some bookish resolutions for 2020.I had to zero my TBR, and she had to finally read James Joyce's magnum opus «Ulysses».Having read (and heard) the book before it was going to be easier the second time around.A second time I was planning for anyway.But since my friend needed support through this personal Odyssey I ended rereading «Ulysses» as a buddy read.We read it early in May and I was glad once again for experiencing Joyce's experimental avant-garde writing.She was glad that she read it and will never have anything to do with it or its novelist, unless hell freezes over, and George R.R. Martin publishes The Winds of Winter.

Okay, I'm revising my original one-star rating of this book. I'm caving. I admit it--I'm a weak person. I cringe every time I do a book comparison and see the other person's five stars staring accusingly (and a little contemptuously) at my forlorn lone star. My solitary star is looking furtively over its shoulder, wondering if anyone has noticed that it belongs to an English teacher. So I'm caving. I'm giving this linguistic freak-show of a book five stars, for precisely that reason. It is a linguistic carnival--a magnificent carnival with every ride and attraction you can think of, and a few you probably didn't. I read this in a college class over Joyce, with the majority of the class being focused on this book. Reading it was a chore, a labor that was almost painful. To accompany the book, we had four other books to help us decipher what the book itself was saying. I can appreciate the brilliance of a mind that produces a book with so many layers, so many intricate references and allusions, that the actual reading becomes more of an intense exercise of solving an elaborate puzzle. I can appreciate the genius that produced this incredible work that is--I don't know--an homage? a tribute? a celebration?--of the English language. I just don't like it, on a personal level. I was personally left cold by the characters and the story. I can see what he did and admire his ability to do it, but that admiration does not extend to the actual story. So it's still a one star in one respect--I still don't like it.I love language. The writing of a story is just as important, if not more so, than the actual story. A wonderful plot can be damaged beyond repair in the hands of an inept writer, while the reader of even the most banal story can experience moments of pure joy at the turn of a phrase or a particularly poetic sentence. I still think, though, that it is the marriage of a great storyline and beautiful prose that creates a true masterpiece. I, personally, did not enjoy the story itself. Maybe someday I'll drag out my stack of Ulysses books (yes, of course I kept them!), and tackle this white whale of a book again and see if a second reading will imbue me with the reverence that my peers feel. Then I will no longer need to hang my head in shame for my traitorous feelings toward this literary icon. Until then, I can now rest easy that I have publicly acknowledged Joyce's superior crafting of the book, at least.

Second time reading, this time after having swum in the Wake. I was lucky enough to time it with having handed in my notice at work and having very little work to do, which allowed for at least 2 or 3 extra hours of reading a day...I adored every damn word of it. Bawdy bloody-buggering-bollocking bomb of a book. An anti-colonial uprising, a giant "fuck you" to England and the English literary tradition. I suspect that one of the factors which will determine whether or not you will love dear old dirty Jamesy, is whether or not you find the following letter he wrote to Nora beautiful, tender and wonderfully full of love and joy and all the rest (regardless of any contemporary issues of gender politics one may have). I shall, to save your blushes, put it in spoiler tags: (view spoiler)[ To NORA Dublin 2 December 1909 …………………………. My love for you allows me to pray to the spirit of eternal beauty and tenderness mirrored in your eyes or fling you down under me on that softy belly of yours and fuck you up behind, like a hog riding a sow, glorying in the very stink and sweat that rises from your arse, glorying in the open shape of your upturned dress and white girlish drawers and in the confusion of your flushed cheeks and tangled hair. It allows me to burst into tears of pity and love at some slight word, to tremble with love for you at the sounding of some chord or cadence of music or to lie heads and tails with you feeling your fingers fondling and tickling my ballocks or stuck up in me behind and your hot lips sucking off my cock while my head is wedged in between your fat thighs, my hands clutching the round cushions of your bum and my tongue licking ravenously up your rank red cunt. I have taught you almost to swoon at the hearing of my voice singing or murmuring to your soul the passion and sorrow and mystery of life and at the same time have taught you to make filthy signs to me with your lips and tongue, to provoke me by obscene touches and noises, and even to do in my presence the most shameful and filthy act of the body. You remember the day you pulled up your clothes and let me lie under you looking up at you while you did it? Then you were ashamed even to meet my eyes. You are mine, darling, mine! I love you. All I have written above is only a moment or two of brutal madness. The last drop of seed has hardly been squirted up your cunt before it is over and my true love for you, the love of my verses, the love of my eyes for your strange luring eyes, comes blowing over my soul like a wind of spices. My prick is still hot and stiff and quivering from the last brutal drive it has given you when a faint hymn is heard rising in tender pitiful worship of you from the dim cloisters of my heart. Nora, my faithful darling, my seet-eyed blackguard schoolgirl, be my whore, my mistress, as much as you like (my little frigging mistress! My little fucking whore!) you are always my beautiful wild flower of the hedges, my dark-blue rain-drenched flower. JIM (as read by the lovely Paget Brewster here https://youtu.be/WN50t8khXMI (hide spoiler)]I love the honest, open, unashamed ejaculation (pun intended) of these letters. I love the fact that they remain exquisitely crafted despite clearly being written with only one hand...And we should not forget also that Bloomsday was the day of Nora and James' first date to Ringsend, upon which evening she..well..I will quote the old fella himself in his recounting of it: "It was not I who first touched you long ago down at Ringsend. It was you who slid your hand down down inside my trousers and pulled my shirt softly aside and touched my prick with your long tickling fingers and gradually took it all, fat and stiff as it was, into your hand and frigged me slowly until I came off through your fingers, all the time bending over me and gazing at me out of your quiet saintlike eyes."  What other lover has ever received such an homage, a gift, as Nora? Of course, those gender theorists who tell us that man writes with semen and woman with milk, will find ironic humor in such an origin for such an allegedly onanistic text. But for me this book is all about the other, all about us, there is nothing narcissistic or self-absorbed about it... The body and its natural functions cannot be obscene, immoral or depraved. Bloom's morning shit is a thing to be gazed at clearly, lovingly, and without blinking. Our sexual desires, our brief flashes of socially inappropriate thought (the inadvertent glance at a passing cleavage) cannot be ignored if "realism" is the goal. And who can show these truths to us? It is Bloom the Irish Jew, the clearly non-heteronormative male (those many little whispered comments on his sexuality, the gender-reversal in Circe), Bloom the feminist (how many other men would have made their wives breakfast in bed in those days?), the critiquer of the Patriarchy, of colonialism, Bloom the speaking Subaltern...Is there a better, richer, profounder character in all of literature? All of Being is here, writ large and beautiful and bold. It is a Love-story, in that it is both about Love and filled with it - romantic love, sexual love, familial love, love of nation, of race, love of food and of bodily functions, love of self, love of the sound of one's own voice...And it is an act of love, in the writing and the giving of it. It is romantic but not idealistic, it is of love as a fact and not an illusion. It is also the only work of art since that of Shakespeare to perfectly combine the highbrow with the low, to join seamlessly and without judgment fart jokes and philosophy (though maybe Tristram Shandy beat him too it). Woolf, bless her slightly snobbish heart, was simply too prudish to ever attempt such a thing which is why, much as I love her, Joyce is the superior artist. **************Just briefly regarding "difficulty" - I think both the Oxen of the Sun and the Circe episodes are "difficult" only if one thinks one needs to clearly understand what the hell is going on all the damn time. Circe in particular is meant to be confusing as we are floating about in a drunken subconscious. The emotional content is the point here (the sexual guilt, the familial guilt, the fear and the sorrow and the loneliness). Just go with it and wait for those flashes of clarity so you know where Bloom and Stephen are and just enjoy the language and the humor and the exploration of repression and desire...This book should, I think, be read as a page-turner, as a riotous, joyful explosion of words. I personally don't think annotations are the way to go - perhaps one of those paragraph overviews of "what is happening in the chapter" (like http://home.wlv.ac.uk/~fa1871/joynote...) is probably all you need...Bloom is quite capable of breaking your heart even if you don't get the Latin references... Get a paperback you don't mind beating the crap out of...carry it round, spill booze on it, read it on the bus, in your bed, in a park, in a pub...read it and sing it and swim in it and live in it...Study it later, but read it now...This is not a book to be worshiped on high, but one to be rolled around with in the dirt...

Οδυσσέας Τεργέστη – Ζυρίχη – Παρίσι, 1914-1921Διαβάζοντας παράλληλα την βιογραφία του Ellmann εκτίμησα πολύ τον Joyce, για το υπόβαθρό του, την ακατάπαυστη προσπάθεια του να υποστηρίξει το έργο του και τη γενικότερή του στάση στη ζωή. Στοιχεία της ζωής του υπάρχουν πολλά στον Οδυσσέα, σε δύο εκδοχές: τη νεανική του Στήβεν Δαίδαλου και την ώριμη του Λεοπόλδου Μπλουμ. Έργο ζωής αυτό το βιβλίο, τουλάχιστον έτσι θεωρώ, μέχρι να διαβάσω τη συνέχεια του Αγρύπνια των Φίννεγκαν. Και τι δεν περιέχει; Στοιχεία της Ιρλανδικής ιστορίας, εσωτερικοί μονόλογοι, πλατωνικοί διάλογοι, συζητήσεις για την λογοτεχνία αλλά και τολμηρές άσεμνες σκηνές.Σε όλο το βιβλίο διακρίνεται η κριτική του Joyce στην εκκλησία και στον συντηρητισμό της κοινωνίας. Ελεύθερο πνεύμα, ιδεολόγος, πιστός σε αξίες. Πολλές οι επιρροές του από μεγάλους φιλόσοφους, λογοτέχνες, εντυπωσιακά πρωτότυπος όμως, απόδειξη της ιδιοφυΐας του. Μεγάλωσε σε μια οικογένεια που έβγαζε δύσκολα τα προς το ζην, παρόλα αυτά ο πατέρας του δεν παρέλειπε να του αγοράζει βιβλία, χωρίς ο ίδιος να έχει ιδιαίτερη μόρφωση. Πολύ σημαντικό ρόλο έπαιξε ο Ezra Pound, βοηθώντας τρομερά τον Joyce, όπως άλλωστε και ο συμπατριώτης του W.B. Yeats. Ο ίδιος με τη σειρά του ενθάρρυνε τον γνωστό Italo Svevo, αλλά και τον Samuel Beckett. Ο Οδυσσέας εκδόθηκε για πρώτη φορά στο Παρίσι από το βιβλιοπωλείο Shakespeare & Company, ενώ απαγορεύτηκε η κυκλοφορία του σε Αγγλία, Ιρλανδία και Αμερική. Στα τελευταία κεφάλαια ο Joyce είναι ιδιαίτερα τολμηρός, θυμίζοντας τον Francois Rabelais (τον οποίο αναφέρει κιόλας).Μεγάλη η αγάπη του για την Ελλάδα. Είχε πάντα το παράπονο, ότι δεν κατάφερε να μάθει ελληνικά. Δεν μπορώ να πω ότι ο Οδυσσέας είναι αντάξιος της Οδύσσειας. Είναι δύο τελείως διαφορετικά έργα, όσα κοινά στοιχεία κι αν έχουν. Πρόκειται για ένα δύσκολο και απαιτητικό βιβλίο. Πολύ ενδιαφέρουσες κριτικές υπάρχουν στο εξής blog. Υπάρχουν κεφάλαια εύκολα και άλλα ακατανόητα. Το μόνο σίγουρο είναι ότι χρειάζεται περισσότερες από μία αναγνώσεις. Είναι από τα ελάχιστα βιβλία που σε γεμίζουν, σου αφήνουν πολλά, τα θυμάσαι για καιρό, από τα κλασικά που έδωσαν άλλη διάσταση στη λογοτεχνία.

Ulysse.C'est quoi ?C'est le 16 juin 1904, raconté par James Joyce.Qu'est-ce qui s'y passe ?Tous les discours possibles s'entrecroisent, alternent et se suivent comme autant de personnages à Dublin. Dans le temps inscrit entre deux levers de soleil, tout l'univers se rencontre.Rien que ça ?Oui, rien que ça.Lire Ulysse ? Pourquoi donc ?Parce que malgré tout, on se pose la question. Et on a bien raison ! On devrait essayer !Pourquoi lire Ulysse ? (bis)Il m'a fallu 6 ans pour donner une réponse affirmative et concluante à la première question.Pour la deuxième question, la première donne un élément de réponse : s'il faut 6 ans, il faut 6 ans. En 6 ans, la situation a pas mal changé, et le lecteur d'aujourd'hui ne cherche pas ce qu'il cherchait il y a 6 ans. Pour mon cas, je ne suis Personne de particulier et je ne cherche rien de particulier, je me suis donc retrouvé dans la réécriture de l'Odyssée.Quelle est la grande vertu de cette histoire ?Cette histoire folle par bien des côtés, elle polit le regard : elle réapprend à voir ce qu'on a cessé de regarder. On en dirait autant de pas mal d'autres livres sûrement, mais ici, ça prend une proportion singulière, complètement singulière. Ulysse, c'est comme la vie, il y a des moments de mou, des passages plus enjoués que d'autres, un programme pour la journée, de l'inattendu à plein pot pour chambouler tout ça.Alors, pourquoi lire ce qu'on peut trouver dans l'état dans une journée ordinaire ?Parce qu'Ulysse, c'est du raconté. Et la vie racontée, c'est pas le même rendu. Et pour raconter, Joyce s'y connaît, a pas besoin de se la raconter, Joyce.Qu'est-ce qu'on peut trouver dans les histoires racontées par Joyce ?On peut y trouver beaucoup : une jubilation, une impatience de vivre, une médiation, une réflexion, une réincarnation comme celle que Marion trouve dans les romans érotiques à succès que lui passe Léopold. Là où l'habitude est passée et où on finit par nourrir des attentes de plus en plus modestes envers les livres et envers les gens aussi, peut-être qu'Ulysse peut apporter ce qu'on n'attendait plus, et ce qu'on n'a jamais eu le luxe d'attendre non plus. La gratuité de la rencontre.Qu'est-ce qui te touche le plus chez James Joyce ?Une curiosité évidente chez l'auteur pour le spectacle quotidien du monde. Un sens photographique de la scène quotidienne. Le don d'habiter son histoire. Une espèce de frénésie de tout voir, de tout raconter, de tout décrire. Le goût indéfectible du jeu verbal et du jeu tout court. La sympathie généreuse pour le carnaval humain dans son abjection, dans son tragique et dans sa drôlerie.Qu'est-ce qui a donné un supplément d'âme, une chair chaleureuse et familière aux personnages qui peuplent ce gros volume à l'air farouche ?Les voix humaines prêtées par RTÉ aux personnages sur près de 30 heures, le rythme imprimé par leurs acteurs à la lecture.Qu'est-ce j'aimerais conseiller aux curieux ?Cette ressource formidable qu'on doit à la radio irlandaise :Ulysses Audiobook. RTÉ 1982Dans ce livre qui forme véritablement un monde, si je dois isoler ce qui m'a le plus parlé personnellement ?-La prose lumineuse de Télémaque, moment du réveil de l'étudiant Stephen Dedalus,-La fantaisie éclaboussante de Protée, moment de la promenade à la plage,-Le langage du quotidien dans le texte de Calypso, les préparatifs du héros Léopold Bloom,-La discussion théorique et littéraire inscrite dans Charybde et Scylla, inscrit dans le plus grand texte Ulysse, inscrit dans la littérature universelle, inscrite dans Ulysse le temps d'une discussion théorique et littéraire,-Le kaléidoscope des Rochers Errants, où on est témoin d'un instant dans la vie de 18 personnes,-L'enivrement et la désorientation promis par Circé (pas moins de 4:49:00 dans la lecture de RTÉ, 1982!),-La rencontre impossible de deux hommes par trop différents, qui se rencontrent pourtant dans Ithaque, et qu'Ithaque se confonde avec la grotte et Pénélope avec Calypso,-Le canevas de phrases déliées et souples de Pénélope.Qu'est-ce que tu aimerais ajouter pour conclure ?Je remets ça en anglais pour un peu plus tard. Il est 2 heures du matin au moment où je termine cette note de lecture en français, l'appel de mon Ithaque matelassée se fait de plus en plus entendre. Mais une dernière chose avant de rentrer au port. J'aimerais remercier tous les amis de GoodReads qui ont la patience et la curiosité de me lire. Avec vous c'est un peu comme dans les livres. C'est la vie, mais en mieux.---------------------------UlyssesWhat is this book about?Joyce tells you about the 16th of June 1904, in Dublin.What gives?All manner of discourses intermingle, follow one another, careen and saunter like as many characters in the streets of Dublin. In the spell of time from dawn to dawn, the whole universe meets itself.Is that all?Yes, it is.Why reading Ulysses?Because you wonder if you should. And you're right to wonder. You should give it a shot.Reading Ulysses? Why? (bis)Only after 6 years has an affirmative answer been given to the first question.As to the second question, if 6 years are necessary, 6 years are necessary, so be it.After 6 years, the reader's situation has taken quite a long stretch, and today's reader does not crave what the former one sought. For all intents and purposes I am Nobody specifically and I'm not looking for anything specifically, that's why I found myself again in this rewriting of the Odyssey.What is the great boon one can draw from this story?This in-more-ways-than-one-wild story polishes your vision : it trains you to see what you have stopped looking at. You certainly hit on other books boasting this property, yet, here it takes an unaccustomed turn, utterly unaccustomed. Ulysses isn't lifelike but it is like life. There are moments of emptiness, and there are moments more happy-go-lucky than others. There is a defined layout for the dawning day and unexpectedness to scrap all this.Then, why bother reading a book where you can find what you can already find in the course of an ordinary day?Because Ulysses is life told. And life told is not the same product. As far as telling is concerned, Joyce knows his trade. Though a joker, he is no joke. No fibs. What can one find in Joyce's yarns?A lot. Jubilation, eagerness to live, reflexion, reincarnation, the same kind of reincarnations Marion finds in the smutty novels Leopolds hands to her.When mired in the cesspool of habit, when you have less and less expectations about books and even people, maybe Ulysses can offer what you no longer expect, and what you haven't expected yet. A unique meeting of minds.What feature is most touching in James Joyce?The author's obvious curiosity for the world's daily spectacle. A photographical approach of the mundane. The gift of inhabiting a story. A frenzy to witness everything, to tell everything, to describe the universe. The shiftless taste for puns and games. A generous sympathy for the sometimes abject, tragic jollity of the human carnival.What gives soul, a warm and familiar flesh to the characters dwelling in this mighty-looking ledger?The voices endowed to the characters by RTÉ over more than 30 hours' worth of soundtrack, the pace given by the actors to their reading.What would I advise to curious people?This unique resource offered by the Irish radio :Ulysses Audiobook. RTÉ 1982If one had to isolate what appealed to one the most in this world-sized book?- The luminous prose in Telemaque, the moment when student Dedalus awakens,- The fantasy occuring in Proteus, during a walk on the beach,- The everyday language in Calypso, when the hero Leopold Bloom prepares breakfast,- The theoretical and literary discussion encompassed in Charybdis and Scylla, itself encompassed in the greater text Ulysses, itself encompassed in world literature, itself encompassed in Ulysses.- The kaleidoscope of the Wandering Rocks, where you successively step in the shoes of 18 different people.- The aimless loitering promised by Circe (a baffling 4 hours and 49 minutes in RTÉ 1982 version)- The unexpected meeting of Stephen Dedalus and Leopold Bloom, two men sharply contrasting with one another, yet meeting in Ithaca, when Ithaca shifts into the Grotto and Penelope turns out to be Calypso.- The loose canvas of Penelope's musings.What one would like to add as a conclusion?I would like to remember all my friends on Goodreads patient and curious enough to read me and bear with my unread sentences. With you, it is a bit like in the books, actually. It is like life, only it is better

Στην αρκτική σκηνή του αριστουργηματικού "2001" του S. Kubrick, οπότε τα πρωτεύοντα θηλαστικά έρχονται σε επαφή με το θαύμα του Μονόλιθου, προσεγγίζουν με δέος και φόβο το τεχνούργημα, κρούοντάς το απαλά με τα πρωτόγονα όπλα-εργαλεία τους. Αυτή την εικόνα είχα κατά νου προτού "βγω στον πηγαιμό" για την πρώτη ανάγνωση του πολυθρύλητου "Οδυσσέα" του Τζόυς. "Αμαθία μεν θράσος…" αναλογίστηκα, εφορμώντας στο εγχείρημα κάποια ευδία ημέρα του Αυγούστου, με την ιερή μανία του νεοφώτιστου. Το ταξίδι πολυκύμαντο, πλην όμως τελεσφόρο. Χωρίς διάθεση μακρηγορίας, η περιλάλητη δυσκολία του βιβλίου δεν κρύβεται στο περιεχόμενό του. Οι βασικές θεματικές του είναι, καθ' ομολογία του ίδιου του Τζόυς, απλές: Αντίδραση και αντίσταση στην παράδοση και στην οπισθοδρόμηση (γλωσσική, πολιτιστική), στην οργανωμένη θρησκεία, σφετερισμός πάσης φύσεως (της γλώσσας, της χώρας, του ήρωα), αλλά ταυτόχρονα ανάγκη ανεύρεσης νέου οράματος και φυγής προς το μέλλον … αυτά και κάποια ακόμα. Βεβαίως, τίποτε δεν προσφέρεται άκοπα, δεδομένου πως οι όποιες αναφορές είναι έμμεσες, συγκεκαλλυμένες, ελλειπτικές, αναζητώντας τη φίλεργο συμμετοχή του δημιουργικού αναγνώστη. Η ιδιαιτερότητα και η ουσία τού "Οδυσσέα" εντοπίζεται αλλού, καθώς άπαντα τα γραφόμενα "παρελαύνουν" υπερήφανα στα "Ηλύσια Πεδία" του Ύφους. Εδώ, η πρωτοποριακή χρήση του "stream of consciousness", των εσωτερικών μονολόγων, αντηχεί τον εσώτερο κόσμο των ηρώων, διαστέλλοντας επ' άπειρο την αντίληψη του εαυτού τους και -ως καθρέφτισμα- του δικού μας που ανασκευάζεται, αναδομείται και ανασυντίθεται αέναα σε κάθε ανάγνωση. Εδώ, η ελατή γλώσσα του Τζόυς δομεί τον κόσμο (του βιβλίου, του υπαρκτού, του σύμπαντος…) και οι ήχοι κατασκευάζουν την πραγματικότητα, αντί να είναι το αποτέλεσμα των αντικειμενικών γεγονότων της πραγματικότητας. Εδώ, η επικράτεια του αφηγηματικού ύφους καθορίζει τελικά και αμετάκλητα την πραγματικότητα στην οποία εμβαπτίζεται ο αναγνώστης. Εδώ, η έννοια της "δημιουργικής ανάγνωσης" (κατά H. Bloom) βρίσκεται στον κολοφώνα της, καθώς η ζεύξη συγγραφέα-αναγνώστη αποτελεί sine qua non για την επιδερμική -κατ' ανάγκην- πρώτη επαφή με το πολυπρισματικό αυτό κείμενο, σε όλη του την έκταση.Ώσπου, μέσω των ενιαίων καταληκτικών παραγράφων (στο κεφάλαιο της Πηνελόπης), ο αναγνώστης να οδηγηθεί ξέπνοα στο παραληρηματικό εκείνο "Ναι!", ιδωμένο ως κατάφαση ζωής, ως θετικά προσημασμένη επιλογή, ως συναίνεση στον έρωτα, στη ζωή, στη δημιουργία που αψηφά τον χρόνο και τον θάνατο. Τι είναι για μένα, όμως, ο "Οδυσσέας"; Ένα Duomo γνώσης, ένα Βιβλίο των Βιβλίων εγκλωβισμένο εσαεί στον Παράδεισο/Βιβλιοθήκη του Μπόρχες. Είναι, ταυτόχρονα, το "δωμάτιο των επιθυμιών", στο οποίο εισέρχεσαι και εξέρχεσαι διαφορετικός κάθε φορά, καθώς το βιβλίο αυτό σε διαβάζει, σε ανατέμνει, σε αναδομεί. Ισχύει, τέλος, για την ανάγνωσή του ό,τι και για την ίδια τη ζωή, της οποίας τη θραυσματική υπόσταση μιμείται (ή μήπως συμβαίνει το αντίθετο;): "Μία ίσον καμία". Άλλες αναγνώσεις, πληρέστερες, αναγκαστικά θα ακολουθήσουν, εκεί που η πρώτη απλά ανοίγει δίαυλο επικοινωνίας με το επαγωγόν και ταυτόχρονα δυσήνιο κείμενο. Μπορεί αυτός ο "πνευματικός πλους" να μην καταλήξει ποτέ, αλλά προς ώρας παραμένω ευγνώμων διότι έγινα κοινωνός του απείρου, μέσω μίας έστω ημέρας της ζωής του L. Bloom, εκείνης της 16ης Ιουνίου. "Et in Arcadia ego".

Depois de um ano e meio acabei  Ulysses de James Joyce, um dos piores e mais chato livro que já li em toda minha vida.James Joyce exagera em tudo. Nas listas, nas piadas ,no fluxo de consciência, na enrolação para se preencher um dia na vida de Bloom.Como se tem que preencher mais de  mil páginas em um espaço de 24 horas , você pode imaginar a enrolação, a baboseira , a chatice que se torna os textos, onde você percebe nitidamente que o texto é arrastado propositalmente só para se preencher o papel.Consegui apenas entender 1 por cento do livro graças a um livro paralelo que eu estava lendo, que tenta explicar, Ulysses de uma forma que se possa entender o máximo possível desse livro indigesto. O livro citado é do tradutor de Ulysses," Sim, eu digo sim: Uma Visita Guiada Ao Ulysses De James Joyce", de Caetano Waldrigues Galindo. O pouco que entendi foi graças a este livro.Cheio de simbolismos, estilos literários é um sacrifício ler Ulysses,uma leitura é para se ter prazer, com Ulysses você tem só lamentações pelo tempo perdido, mas se mantém firme na leitura como um autoflagelo, pelos pecados cometidos, por nós, seres vis e maus.Não percam tempo lendo , como infelizmente perdi, o tempo é precioso e um segundo é tempo suficiente para se mudar tudo para a vida toda.

this book just reaffirmed to me that white men can be praised for doing the bare fucking minimum and still be labelled a genius.technically i only read the first 10% of this, then the chapters Calypso, Penelope and Nausicaa but im counting those as a win for the psychological trauma this has caused me✋🏻[edited: i just read some other low reviews of this and im cackling— one person dropped their copy in the toilet and didn’t finish it, another suggested that life is too short to read Ulysses, and i sincerely concur. and reading the comments of white men offended by people’s dislike of this book is also ✨delicious✨]

So I've just finished the Odyssey with Joyce's Ulysses and having spent so much time rocking by the author's stream of consciousness, still feel unsteady...though safely finished the travel, reached the end of the book... Was it worth reading? By all means, yes!Pain, that was not yet the pain of love, fretted his heart. *Look at the sea. What does it care about offences?*I hear the ruin of all space, shattered glass and toppling masonry, and time one livid final flame. What’s left us then?*Thought is the thought of thought. Tranquil brightness. The soul is in a manner all that is: the soul is the form of forms. Tranquillity sudden, vast, candescent: form of forms.*Airs romped around him, nipping and eager airs. They are coming, waves. The whitemaned seahorses, champing, brightwindbridled, the steeds of Mananaan.*He had come nearer the edge of the sea and wet sand slapped his boots. The new air greeted him, harping in wild nerves, wind of wild air of seeds of brightness.*At the lacefringe of the tide he halted with stiff forehoofs, seawardpointed ears. His snout lifted barked at the wavenoise, herds of seamorse. They serpented towards his feet, curling, unfurling many crests, every ninth, breaking, plashing, from far, from farther out, waves and waves.*I was happier then. Or was that I? Or am I now I? [...] Can’t bring back time. Like holding water in your hand. Would you go back to then? Just beginning then. Would you? [...] Useless to go back. Had to be. Tell me all.*Art has to reveal to us ideas, formless spiritual essences. The supreme question about a work of art is out of how deep a life does it spring. *She waved, unhearing Cowley, her veil to one departing, dear one, to wind, love, speeding sail, return.*A low incipient note sweet banshee murmured all. A thrush. A throstle. His breath, birdsweet, good teeth he’s proud of, fluted with plaintive woe. Is lost. Rich sound. Two notes in one there. Blackbird I heard in the hawthorn valley. Taking my motives he twined and turned them. All most too new call is lost in all. Echo. How sweet the answer. How is that done? All lost now. Mournful he whistled. Fall, surrender, lost.*Braintipped, cheek touched with flame, they listened feeling that flow endearing flow over skin limbs human heart soul spine. [...] Through the hush of air a voice sang to them, low, not rain, not leaves in murmur, like no voice of strings of reeds or whatdoyoucallthem dulcimers, touching their still ears with words, still hearts of their each his remembered lives. Good, good to hear: sorrow from them each seemed to from both depart when first they heard. When first they saw, lost Richie, Poldy, mercy of beauty, heard from a person wouldn’t expect it in the least, her first merciful lovesoft oftloved word. Love that is singing: love’s old sweet song. *It soared, a bird, it held its flight, a swift pure cry, soar silver orb it leaped serene, speeding, sustained, to come, don’t spin it out too long long breath he breath long life, soaring high, high resplendent, aflame, crowned, high in the effulgence symbolistic, high, of the ethereal bosom, high, of the high vast irradiation everywhere all soaring all around about the all, the endlessnessness-ness…*She had loved him better than he knew. Lighthearted deceiver and fickle like all his sex he would never understand what he had meant to her and for an instant there was in the blue eyes a quick stinging of tears. Their eyes were probing her mercilessly but with a brave effort she sparkled back in sympathy as she glanced at her new conquest for them to see. *There are sins or (let us call them as the world calls them) evil memories which are hidden away by man in the darkest places of the heart but they abide there and wait. He may suffer their memory to grow dim, let them be as though they had not been and all but persuade himself that they were not or at least were otherwise. Yet a chance word will call them forth suddenly and they will rise up to confront him in the most various circumstances, a vision or a dream, or while timbrel and harp soothe his senses or amid the cool silver tranquillity of the evening or at the feast at midnight when he is now filled with wine. Not to insult over him will the vision come as over one that lies under her wrath, not for vengeance to cut off from the living but shrouded in the piteous vesture of the past, silent, remote, reproachful. *What rendered problematic for Bloom the realisation of these mutually selfexcluding propositions?The irreparability of the past[...] The imprevidibility of the future [...]*What special affinities appeared to him to exist between the moon and woman?Her antiquity in preceding and surviving successive tellurian generations: her nocturnal predominance: her satellite dependence: her luminary reflection: her constancy under all her phases, rising, and setting by her appointed times, waxing and waning: the forced invariability of her aspect: her indeterminate response to inamrmative interrogation: her potency over effluent and refluent waters: her power to enamour, to mortify, to invest with beauty, to render insane, to incite to and aid delinquency: the tranquil inscrutability of her visage: the terribih’ty of her isolated dominant implacable resplendent propinquity: her omens of tempest and of calm: the stimulation of her light, her motion and her presence: the admonition of her craters, her arid seas, her silence: her splendour, when visible: her attraction, when invisible.

Is this seat taken? I’ve only just arrived. No, third time, truly. First was in my early twenties. Over there I can see my old plate of good intentions piled high, barely touched. On that other table marked Centennial I spy my second visit. A single bite worth fifty pages missing from the entrée; mossy, ten years gone. This time, I'll stay.Lovers of lit orbit us like satellites of a dark and inscrutable planet. If we lift our gaze to the borders we can see them peering into this celebration. Intimidated. Bored. Frightened. Here goes one now, discarding his half-eaten in a huff towards the exit with an escape velocity towards next. White knuckled reading. Rending of words through the gnashing of teeth. Ferocious hope for elucidation. Will not devour as it is given; an ineluctable modality of the victual.For unto us a summons given. Tidal pull, life long, recursive:
You are my guests.The uninvitedHistory to blame.Fabled by mothers of memory.
We arrive with baggage. Hold to the now, the here, through which all futures plunge to the past. We dance and revel in Bacchanalian triumphant swing. Wilde time. Pain is far. Pan is fair. Around this green are headstones of those who came after. Still with us are those giants of lit with cap tipped. Cemetery put in of course on account of the symmetry. This is how our world works. Our tombs next to our tomes. We mark our years by the passing of popes.This last bite? I’m saving it. For Penelope. I’m not going anywhere. I’ve found home. Mine to end. I toast you, fellow reader. Flag on to your gob, lets. Raise them high.U.p: up.

I don't know why I feel the need to apologize, but this is the third time I tried to read this and failed. I tried this time with a group, hoping that would make it more intelligible and less oppressive--but, no, it was pretty much the same reaction as the first time. I will not ever try again. If it had been up to me, James Joyce would still be languishing in obscurity. I know, I know...it is avant guard, it is groundbreaking, it is unique, and (for those who share his sense of humor) it is humorous, but it didn't feel any of those things to me. Maybe I just don't do cutting edge. I also hated Confederacy of Dunces, and for much the same reasons. My hat is off to everyone who slugged through it, really off to everyone who found the things that are worth admiring, and a little bit of fear for those who actually enjoyed it. :)

My third attempt to read this book and this time, I succeeded. It stayed 2 years in my currently-reading shelf. I read it intermittently because there were other books that came along the way. First, I read this page by page until a quarter of it. I did not understand where the story was going and what Joyce was trying to say. So, for the third time, I stopped. My brother asked why. I told him how arduous, dragging and difficult this book was so after he commented "straining your eyes is not the same as reading," he gave me a copy of The New Bloomsday Book: A Guide Through Ulysses by Harry Blamires and so the reading became enjoyable and made the book easier to understand. God bless my brother for rescuing me.You see, check all the best ever novel list and chances are, you will find this book. It is in the 1001, 501, Modern Library, Metalist, etc. It is even said to be the greatest novel in English language. For its inventiveness, depth and complexity, I agree. Inventiveness, because it has all the modernist or post-modernist flavors. It has all the metaphors and references to other equally brilliant yet challenging-to-read works (Homer's Odyssey, Shakespeare's Hamlet, Chaucer's The Canterbury Tales. Joyce used his characters to reveal his soul and brain. It is about a day (June 16, 1904 aka "Bloomsday" in England) in the life of Leopold Bloom a 38-y/o writer whose wife Molly Bloom is having extra-marital affairs not to mention many admirers or suitors. As the day progresses, as he wanders in the street of Dublin, he passes by a newspaper office, a funeral, a library, several pubs, several churches, a hospital and a brothel. He also meets the recurring character of Joyce's earlier work, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, the 22-y/o Stephen Dedalus who has become the replacement of his dead son Rudy who has died after only a few months of being alive. After Rudy's birth, Leopold and Molly stop having sex.That is the gist of the story and yet the breath, width and depth of the narration are nothing but astonishing. The Homeric parallelism is astounding. Joyce is said to believe that human behavior, unconsciously drawn from history or myth, endlessly repeats themselves. So, Leopold Bloom follows the life of Ulysses, Stephen Dedalus is Ulysses' son, Telemachus and Molly Bloom is the philandering Penelope. The story also heavily tackles the father-son relationship and makes references to the deathless story of Hamlet. The brothel episode quotes heavily on the Wife of Bath episode in Chaucer's Canterbury. "The Cyclops" chapter deals on religion in England during that time and is said to have been written by Joyce while looking at the map of Dublin. It is also where most of his characters appear and has the least Homeric parallelism. "The Circe" chapter is said to be the one that it took months for Joyce to write because of the many revisions he made and it came to be the most interesting part not only because it has the most Homeric parallelism but also has the most quotable quotes, i.e., where I have the most dog-eared pages. The last chapter "Penelope" is not punctuated and the free-flowing verse reminded me of Jose Saramago's Blindness. So, I take back my earlier admiration for Saramago's trademark. I thought it was an innovative idea until I came to that penultimate chapter of beautiful soliloquy of Molly Bloom.I know this review does not do any justice to a staggering book like Ulysses. Suffice it to say, that this book is a test of reading endurance. When I finished this, I felt the same way like when I finished Leo Tolstoy's War and Peace when I was in college, a quarter of century ago. When I finished that book, I said to myself that I could read anything until my first two attempts to read Ulysses. Now that I'm done with this, my next challenge is to read and finish Proust's Remembrance of the Things Past. If this took me three attempts and 2 years to finish, I am giving myself 5 years for that work. On the second thought, I should get me a guide book for that, too. Good luck to me!

Por primera vez, no he sido capaz de ponerle una valoración numérica a un libro. Decantarme por las 4 o 5 estrellas habría sido demasiado postureo por mi parte, porque aunque ha habido momentos brillantes (especialmente el último capítulo que es MARAVILLA), este libro lo he sufrido mucho más que disfrutado. ¿A quién quiero engañar? A nadie. Las 3 estrellas quedaban descartadas automáticamente porque no me parece un libro que te deje precisamente indiferente. Aún hoy, semanas después de haberlo cerrado, le sigo dando vueltas a algunos de los experimentos que Joyce hizo conmigo. Por último, las 2 o 1 estrellas me parecían una declaración de intenciones demasiado fuerte, con la que tampoco me siento cómodo: sí, es un dolor de cabeza, pero también es un libro único, una oportunidad de ponerte a prueba como lector, y de asistir incrédulo a la destrucción (a ratos jocosa, a ratos odiosa) de la novela del siglo XIX. Conclusión: no hay estrellas esta vez. Si alguna vez estoy tan loco (o tan sedado) como para querer releerlo, intentaré afinar más en esto de ponerle nota. RESEÑA COMPLETA: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CaoOh...

I read this in college, first as an English major and then as a grad student. Sure, I must have read it 3 times before I finally understood what was going on, and OK, I had to come equipped with piles of secondary sources (annotations, plot guides, books of critical essays), BUT once I appreciated it, I was blown away by Joyce's erudition and skill. To give you a flavor of the work, there's a whole chapter where two men are waiting for one man's wife to give birth. They're just talking, in a rather strange way, but as they talk the language changes, and you realize you're witnessing the birth of the English language itself. It starts in Old English, as I recall, and goes through all the various stages of the language (including Middle English, Latinate English, Elizabethan, 18th century, 19th century, modern), and ends in Irish pub slang, as if that's the culmination of all those centuries of linguistic development. It's just brilliantly done.

☘️☘️☘️☘️☘️
”A labyrinth built by Daedalus, an artist Famous in building, who could set in stone Confusion and conflict, and deceive the eye With devious aisles and passages.”Metamorphoses by Ovid (translated by Rolfe Humphries) - Kindle edition, p186#
“Miss Dunne clicked on the keyboard: —16 June 1904.”
Today, the 16th June, 1904* to be precise, I spent roaming around Dublin with Leopold Bloom. He shared his rambling thoughts with me, but I was reluctant to partake in his meals of offal to which he is partial (although I briefly considered trying some Guinness, I shared some Burgundy with Bloom instead). We even attended a funeral. Paddy Dignam’s funeral. Yes, Paddy Dignam is dead. However, back to those thoughts. How they strayed all over the place (almost like mine, and perhaps also yours). I admit that it wasn't always easy to follow his fluttering thoughts, but then I discovered that I should also listen to what was going on around us, to the voices of those present and also to listen to the ditties** being sung. This I managed to do*** by listening to an audio recording whilst simultaneously reading the thoughts of Bloom (“I declare to my antimacassar if you took up a straw from the bloody floor and if you said to Bloom: Look at, Bloom. Do you see that straw? That's a straw. Declare to my aunt he'd talk about it for an hour so he would and talk steady.”) and of those people whom he encountered during this day. One of these was Stephen Dedalus who features prominently and whose path frequently crossed Bloom's. In fact the day starts with Stephen at the Martello Tower**** where he is staying with his friend Buck Mulligan.attributionStephen is the alter ego of his own author. Most of the people encountered on this "day" were people known to this author, if under another name and at a different time and place. There were several encounters in pubs, and in of these there was a heated discussion about Shakespeare. Unlike Homer's hero, our Irish counterpart Bloom takes but a day to finish his epic odyssey. But what a day it is! Satisfied but exhausted by my own odyssey of reading their meandering thoughts (interior dialogues) that day, which were punctuated by puns, allusions and ditties, I felt as though I had actually been reading for a month (what is that you say? six weeks, eh?) - perhaps I have...Having thus explored the inner landscapes of Bloom & Co and the outer physical landscape of Dublin, I now thank you for reading my non review (I make no attempt at analysing Ulysses) of my rambling thoughts. Excuse my hubris (I speak only for myself!) for even attempting to write about Ulysses; I'm simply relating my own reading experience.
“Yeats wrote to John Quinn saying, ‘[Joyce’s] new story in the Little Review, looks like becoming the best work he has done. It is an entirely new thing – neither what the eye sees nor the ear hears, but what the rambling mind thinks and imagines from moment to moment. He has certainly passed in intensity any novelist of our time.’” (Letters of W.B. Yeats, as quoted by Gordon Bowker in James Joyce: A Biography, p258**)###*Which just so happens to be the day that author James Joyce first dated Nora Barnacle, his future wife. 16th June is now commemorated as Bloomsday.**It doesn’t surprise me that there are several ditties, opera arias and musical references as James Joyce sang well enough to have become an opera singer had he chosen that career. He knew several opera singers and was a close friend of the famous tenor John McCormack. Joyce’s son became an opera singer.“Martha, chestnote, return! —Come! It soared, a bird, it held its flight, a swift pure cry, soar silver orb it leaped serene, speeding, sustained, to come, don't spin it out too long long breath he breath long life, soaring high, high resplendent, aflame, crowned, high in the effulgence symbolistic, high, of the etherial bosom, high, of the high vast irradiation everywhere all soaring all around about the all, the endlessnessnessness . . . —To me!”Joyce’s writing has a musical cadence, and there are sounds of tankards clanging in the pub, of voices, of city noises. There is the sound of mass and confession and the tap, tap, tap as the blind man walks by.***My approach was a three-pronged attack: reading Ulysses, simultaneously listening to the audio read by Jim Norton and Marcella Riordan, and also reading a biography of James Joyce by Gordon Bowker: James Joyce: A Biography This worked well for me and it certainly enhanced my reading experience.****Photo: The room in The James Joyce Museum/Martello Tower (Wikipedia)#####The novel is very funny and there’s something to offend almost everybody. The scene with Gerty and the fireworks with its sexual innuendos had me chuckling. Joyce's linguistic dexterity is formidable. I loved the play on words and words playfully created, as well as those crazy lists of names with their incongruous inclusions that kept popping up:“From his girdle hung a row of seastones which jangled at every movement of his portentous frame and on these were graven with rude yet striking art the tribal images of many Irish heroes and heroines of antiquity, Cuchulin, Conn of hundred battles, Niall of nine hostages, Brian of Kincora, the ardri Malachi, Art MacMurragh, Shane O'Neill, Father John Murphy, Owen Roe, Patrick Sarsfield, Red Hugh O'Donnell, Red Jim MacDermott, Soggarth Eoghan O'Growney, Michael Dwyer, Francy Higgins, Henry Joy M'Cracken, Goliath, Horace Wheatley, Thomas Conneff, Peg Woffington, the Village Blacksmith, Captain Moonlight, Captain Boycott, Dante Alighieri, Christopher Columbus, S. Fursa, S. Brendan, Marshal MacMahon, Charlemagne, Theobald Wolfe Tone, the Mother of the Maccabees, the Last of the Mohicans, the Rose of Castile, the Man for Galway, The Man that Broke the Bank at Monte Carlo, The Man in the Gap, The Woman Who Didn't, Benjamin Franklin, Napoleon Bonaparte, John L. Sullivan, Cleopatra, Savourneen Deelish, Julius Caesar, Paracelsus, sir Thomas Lipton, William Tell, Michelangelo Hayes, Muhammad, the Bride of Lammermoor, Peter the Hermit, Peter the Packer, Dark Rosaleen, Patrick W. Shakespeare, Brian Confucius, Murtagh Gutenberg, Patricio Velasquez, Captain Nemo, Tristan and Isolde, the first Prince of Wales, Thomas Cook and Son, the Bold Soldier Boy, Arrah na Pogue, Dick Turpin, Ludwig Beethoven, the Colleen Bawn, Waddler Healy, Angus the Culdee, Dolly Mount, Sidney Parade, Ben Howth, Valentine Greatrakes, Adam and Eve, Arthur Wellesley, Boss Croker, Herodotus, Jack the Giantkiller, Gautama Buddha, Lady Godiva, The Lily of Killarney, Balor of the Evil Eye, the Queen of Sheba, Acky Nagle, Joe Nagle, Alessandro Volta, Jeremiah O'Donovan Rossa, Don Philip O'Sullivan Beare.”I loved the flights of fancy and the sheer lunacy of it all. But of course some of it was all Irish to me...

Compendiusly Nipping Pastiche. Clearseeing.Yes, I am a horrible person. This book damaged my self-esteem. Sally Kellerman sat and read Ulysses to me. If anyone tells you how ‘marvelous’, ‘daring’ or ‘revolutionary’ this book is just throttle them with a stick because they’re stupid ponces. Bloody unreadable. Joyce was naturally on the list. What a waste of time and effort. He did not deserve to earn a penny for writing this cryptic, abstruse, impenetrable monstrosity. I found my short interaction with Ulysees to be so boring, so completely confusing, so brain-numbing (in the worst possible way) that I was forced to abandon it. OMG. "Good luck trying to get through that". I am waiting for a barrage of harassment from would-be critics and Joyce lovers. With a cast of hundreds, the majority of whom utter a word of two of gibberish and then are never heard from again. I can appreciate he had a huge talent...but can't help thinking that his was his idea of a laugh at the expense of everybody else who would read it! Reading it is like running 26 miles. With so much disregard for the interests of normal readers. Worse than Brideshead Revisited, worse than Lady Chatterley's Lover, worse than Lolita, worse than The Satanic Verses. It's akin to Shakespeare's work. Is this a book which I see before me? Kindled for free. Worst book in English in the 20th century. I haven't a clue as to what the story is about. I never liked the band Nirvana. There's nothing wrong with experimentation. This week I read Ulysses. I read this in two sittings. In what follows I want to put forward the argument that Ulysses is preeminently anathema to the artist. After about 50 pages of 769 of UlyssesIt's a tedious volgar read and whoever said that this was the great work had thier head up the rear end. Jimmery Joycelikens. Jammer Joykees. Jiffy Jenkins. Jook Jammikins. It certainly made me appreciate the work done by New Testament translators because the Greek manuscripts were without capital letters or punctuation. I couldn’t distinguish the characters from each other. But come on now! Okay, I get it. I do not believe there is any talent wasted in this book. I read only the first two pages, this told me everything I needed to know about this puffed up trainwreck of a book. I feel I deserve this. There were some glimpses of brilliance and humor. Etc etc. I suppose I am not born to climb mountains. I can't really give a full review. Joyce's works are much like Wagners. Awful and basically unreadable. I think Joyce was very intelligent. I want to urinate on it then throw it in the fireplace. I'm sorry to say that i'm one of the latter. ...endlessly inventive and clever, displaying a dazzling use of language and a lack of repetition which is quite incredible... "Everybody knows now that Ulysses is the greatest novel of the century." I spent a few weeks during the summer living with my friends at their house on the Mad River in Warren, VT. Wasn't quite expecting something quite so up itself. I won't comment on it. I'm normally a very fast reader. I've finished reading this. It was part of a University course. I get it. The book is always on best-of novel lists. What is Ulysses about? Feel a little bit more literate or intelligent afterwards. I found it very difficult to differentiate between the narration, thoughts, and spoken words of the characters. In truth intended simply to dare anyone to call him out. The deed is done. First published in installment-form from March 1918 to December 1920 in The Little Review, an American journal. Pffft. It has been argued that it is pretentious. waste. of. time. “Twilight” is a famous, highly read pop culture book, loved by many. Ulysses may be the most pretentious book ever written. So it's not for me. *sigh* (This is an opinion, to which I am entitled). I read another chapter last night. I simply am not masochistic enough. I first tried to read this when I was 17. This work owes even less to The Odyssey than the movie, Wherefore Art Thou? I don’t get it. I think all the 'sex' and whatnot was just put in to get the book intentionally banned so people would be more inclinded to read it b/c it was no deemed 'naughty'. I read it. It's witty and clever and usually draws out a vivid experience of even the most mundane things. I kept hoping that I would adapt to the lack of punctuation. You can tell he/she is either lying or has only read excerpts if he/she claims to have enjoyed it. This is utter crap. The book is, of course, utter drivel. I've seen better sentences and literature. (The ones who say they "read" it are lying). This one's gonna have to wait in a long, long line before I ever get to it again. I hated hated hated this book. I hope he wrote it with the idea of Only reading it himself. "You have to read James Joyce before you die." I am finished this book. The prose is appaling. I will be the first person in the history of literature to say out loud that, "I don't get it and I don't care." I enjoyed parts of it but I wouldn't recommend it. I did not enjoy it at all. ok, i'm a writer and creative as hell. I think you need to be in a university English class to read this book. I feel like I should justify the one-star rating on this book. I couldn't do it. Am s-o mai citesc inca o data... I had no idea what was going on. OK, this is like moslems being promised 72 virgins in heaven and finding they are all bitter nuns from a convent school. It looks like a classic, feels like a classic. ugh..HATED IT! Just hated this. Awful. None of it has been easy. I get the literary and Greek references. It's just so self-indulgent, sophomoric, angsty and pretentious. Eins der wenigen Bücher, die ich nicht zu Ende gelesen habe. Such an effort to even get through it. I Love James Joyce. ...either my mind is too simple or I am less masochistic than I thought. Spoiler: nothing happens. I ALWAYS make it a point to finish books. When people talk about stream of consciousness, they equate it to brilliance. Ulyses is about as impenetrable book as one can find. This book is for shit. Hated it. James Joyce is considered to be such an amazing author. This book is the biggest scam in the history of scams and books. I'm too stubborn to give up!! The emperor has no clothes! "Don't be afraid of it, it is not going to eat you." I speak English. I must say that I was really captivated by some of the things Joyce addresses. Even less of it made sense. This is one of those great works of literature. Even though I bought it in my own language (Norwegian), I wasn't able to finish it. A meddling, incoherent novel. What? I couldn't even begin to finish this book. Good God. There are a few phrases that are beautifully crafted. Maybe I'm just not smart enough to understand a masterpiece. Registrei um livro no BookCrossing.com! FAR too much wankery for my liking. I was only able to read it through forcing myself. It's not like trying to read Finnegans Wake or anything. Truth be told. Nothing to do all day. I got away with only reading the 1st page. Rambling, ridiculous, and ignores the rules of writing. My notes say "yes". I've tried to read this for 30 years. It's one of the few books I didn't persist with! Its just plain nonsense!!! I understood the words. But lost the will to live after the first few pages!!!! From start to finish this book was difficult to read. I refuse to believe. Why write a novel that nobody can understand?! My intellect is clearly inadequate. I just could not cope. That's why I found it boring. Can only be read by the utterly jobless. This guy was creepy. Ugh. Way over-rated. I considered this cruel and unusual punishment. This must mean I'm no literary genius because I thought it was non sense. I am comfortable enough with myself. I set myself the challenge to get to pg 50. Needless to say, I didn't. I probably should read it again with adult eyes. I have read, studies and read again still cant warm to it. I did not understand this book. What....the....f**k....???!!! i give this book one star. "I was ordered to read this.” Gobbygook whatchamacallit thisiscrap! Thank God for my teacher explaining everything! Dear sweet Jesus. I very rarely hate books. Astounded by the genius. I skimmed by on this one. I absolutely hated every second of reading. I hated this pointless, self-important mess. I think Joyce is just f'ing with everybody. The most polite thing I can say. I can't help that I'm so anal. I can't be convinced that a book so dense it requires annotations far longer than itself could ever be considered the greatest fictional work of the 20th century. Perhaps i should've read it in school. What was I thinking?!? Is there any way to express? This isn't the great American novel: It's them great American mistake. I clicked finished so i could get this off my currently reading list. Read the actual Odyssey instead. EVER! I couldn't bear this crap any longer couldn't finish. Pretentious crap if I've ever read it. ... just couldn't get through it .... wayyyy too much going on. very difficult to read or understand. Couldn't understand the language. This was really absurd. The emperor's new clothes. I have to admit I found it boring. I read 20% of it. That is all. I can't seem to engage with this at all. How was this ever published? I don't care what they say. I'm putting this on my read shelf. Found this book extremely difficult. This book was chosen by the Modern Library as the greatest novel of the 20th century. That is all. Unreadable. Not enjoyable. Because I wasn't enjoying it. It's atrocious. I CANNOT STRESS HOW MUCH I HATE JAMES JOYCE FOR EXISTING. I call it dyslexia. I read the words in this book. This book is un-comprehensible by humans. Don't smite me. Several attempts. Love Joyce’s work. I realize that Joyce is a literary genius. This would never be published today. Here it is. I made it! I was never able. I must admit. Never made it. I have no idea. A great work. This book doesn’t make any sense. What is the value of this book? mind numbing boredom Too difficult. Worst book. This book induces fugax. Sorry. unreadably pretentious just say no to james joyce life"s too short Boring junk. That is all. Infumable. Awful. Sorry. much ado about nothing Complete, worthless, drivel-shit. I don't generally make snap judgements. maybe not all lit-ruhchuh is supposed to be enjoyable to read. Not smart enough. The writing style is awful. Couldn't finish it--couldn't understand it! I still couldn't get into it. Just read Matt's review..... There are many books. aufgegeben - zu kompliziert I generally slog it. Everyone seem to have a knack for describing how wonderful the book is. We're done here. I largely missed the point of this book, as my final essay shows. Felt like a martyr trying to finish reading it. The only book I've ever burned. Probably more of a half star. Don´t get me wrong. I wanted to burn my copy of this book. I've tried reading this book 4 times. You heard it! Alright, James Joyce. If you ask me this book is utter shit. really though? Notable as an experimental novel. It seems people love it. (I'm at about page 608 or so.) Yes, every word. The idea of Ulysses is perhaps where the brilliance rests. I listened to it on CD. It is the most complicated and complete novel ever written. It might be occasionally funny. Ranked #1 novel of the 20th Century. Give me a Brontë or an Austen any day of the week. Completely obtuse, vulgar, boring, stupid. There were periods of genius. The last chapter which is probably 50 pages long has absolutely no punctuation of any kind. Awful. still working on it. hätte ich es nur verstanden... I can honestly state an opinion. The #1 novel of the 20th century on the MLA's list. I know it's a classic. I have read other stream of conscience novels. He's such a show off and it shows. I must confess. The only skill Joyce seems to have. That's the most insane book I've ever read. I am still at lose regarding this book! Across the room and out the window. I was lost within pages. It can not be evaluated as a esthetic opera. Makes Faulkner look as straightforward as Hemingway. I know that it is one of the best book ever in Modern fictions. A waste of ink and paper. I really, really, really tried to read this book. When someone tells me they like Joyce, I find it hard to believe. Atill not sure what the point of the novel is. Oh good grief! It was one of those "Emperor's New Clothes" kind of things. I really really had to work. The world is divided. It was a serious chore. Joyce was a genius. Couldn't get through it. Utter, utter codswallop. I know this is a classic. I got 85 pages. One of the few books. i didn't like this book because i didn't get it. "You had to be there." I lack imagination. I hate James Joyce's superior writing style so much. Since my friend Michael just posted his review, I want credit for slogging through this monster as well. Nothing hooked me at all. this book broke me. Finally finished! Give me Faulkner anyday. I was not a fan. Revising my rating. Too deep. The rest is crap. Really, you never need to read this. I give myself 5 stars for finishing it. This is the moment. I never believed in book burning. This book kicked my ass. I wouldn't (and don't ever want to) know. Maybe I'm just to stupid to get it. Same thing with Jack Kerouac. Most possibly one of the worst books. Kudos to you who got through it all! I can't do that. I wanted to like it. Eternally frustrating. Summer reading was a good call. I never knew a book could make one so violently angry. I know it's considered a classic. Just because you can, doesn't mean you should. Gak usah dibaca lagi. :)) Hire an editor. I have to restart it again. I keep listening to this. I made it. It was so awful that I couldn't. Same complaint had with Infinity Jest. This one is notorious for it's difficulty. This is one. Okay. Soporific and boring. hated it never ever ever its just nonsense who cares Maybe I'll try again someday. mixing is impeccable! Not a fan. you will love this book. nothing in the story grabbed me My choice is made. Hard to follow and not a very good story. blech. Ramblings of a drunken Irish git! hated it. enough said. Impenetrable. worst book ever!!! Very hard to read. Unbearable

Reading Finnegans Wake is a vastly different experience than reading Ulysses but it does pull one's thoughts back, riverain, to this, perhaps the single richest and most rerereadable book in the English language. (Shakespeare's corpus is an analog; one can revisit it endlessly and dig and dig and continue to unearth the rarest minerals, gems, fossils, strange stones and fresh human bones; one can always feel the newness even after a dozen readings). Though I'm reading the Wake right now, I've been daydreaming again of Bloom and Dedalus and Molly and Blazes Boylan and the Citizen and Gerty MacDowell and Buck Mulligan and The Man in the Macintosh and the winds blowing through the offices of the Freeman's Journal and Circe's phantasmagoria and Hamlet and there have been rocks wandering and ships amast and Osip Mandelstam's "Insomnia. Homer. Taut Sails... To an alien land, like a phalanx of cranes- foam of the gods on the heads of the kings- where do you sail? what would the things of Troy be to you, Achaeans, without Helen?" (or Penelope or Molly or Anna Livia Plurabelle who haveth childers everywhere) or the sea or Homer all moves by love's glow and the black sea thundering its oratory- and lying down among rocks or submerging in shoals to ponder the visible and the invisible and the sun spinning round one infinite day only. Time halts. It's a shame so many people consider this book unreadable or unendurable or that there is not time for books such as these. Time is all laid out already and already everything has happened and will happen again, but still the moment of each meeting is sweet. Return to books like these, take on books like these and live with them; Homer is still alive and so is Joyce and life is too like these books to not read them while you are able. Say yes.

Τα πέντε αστέρια τα βάζω σε μένα που κατάφερα να το τελειώσω με τη δεύτερη. Εντάξει, και ο Τζόις κάτι έκανε.

I realized that though I promised to put my essay on Ulysses up, I never did! It is here: http://www.publicbooks.org/bloomsday/

5 aylık bir süreçti benim ve bir grup arkadaşım için Ulysses hazırlıkları. Bu süreçte bir sürü okuma yaptık, öğrendik. Hazırlığı bu kadar olan bir kitabı bitirmenin ferahlığı varken bir yandan da boşluktayım.Yorum yazar mıyım bilmiyorum, Joyce'un beyni çok farklı çalışıyor. Neyi tam anladığımdan da emin değilim zaten. Dublin sokaklarında 24 saat dolandık...Çeviride yanlış tercih yaptığımı düşünüyorum ama, belki bir gün yeniden okurum. Muazzamsın Joyce, bir yolculuk daha bitti...💚A. Raca, 2020

I’m not gonna attempt to give you my intellectual response to this awe-inspiring work, but perhaps I could, tentatively, attempt to give voice to my emotional response. I expected to hate this book, I truly did. From what I’d heard of it, I thought it arrogant, foolish and a waste of everyone’s time. What’s the point of a work that’s so much about style? That steals and mimics? To the point where everything drowns in quantity and complexity, and all you can do is wave goodbye to the men, women and children and save yourself. For the first 200-300 pages I didn’t find much to dispel me of my notion that this was not worth my time, but then, almost suddenly, I did. Although I’m not entirely sure what I found. I’ll admit it right now: I’m not a good critical reader, I’m just not. I sit there, pencil poised over paper, I read and then I stare at the page and think “I should annotate something”, but I can never figure out what it is I’m supposed to be observing. So I had a summary and analysis of every chapter in front of me while I read it, because then I’d know what was remarkable, what to look out for, what to circle in neat pencil strokes. I don’t remember a lot of that, to be honest. I can’t offer any views on form or style or anything interesting at all. Except maybe this: whenever I think of this book now, I’m filled with tenderness. I can’t think of any other explanation than that reading Ulysses is a complete submersion in a world so like our own and yet a world suspended in time, a day that runs endlessly parallel to ours, but always separate, other. I dived in and I lost myself, and when I emerged, victorious, at the other end, I had spent so long in the water, I could still recall the perfect stillness of the silence. It might be more accurate to describe reading it as walking a long, long hallway, with hundreds and hundreds of doors. Some are wide open, some are closed, some are ajar. You can take the time and open and search every door and every room, or you can open only some, or, like me, you can walk the hallway and glance into those that are ajar, only trying a few others, curious to get to the end. And then there it was, the end, with a mind blowing last chapter. Closing the book I was relieved and satisfied. I knew I’d rushed it, but the understanding I’d created of the story left me fulfilled nonetheless. I was surprised, however, that I felt very little sympathy towards any of the characters, they were unique and bland in their own way, memorable, but in a detached way. James Joyce goes out of his way to make them human, to give voice to every little, dirty human behaviour we want to keep hidden. He puts fucking everything on display, and he does it in such a way it can’t be ignored, but has to be pondered. However much one might want to hate this book (and I really wanted to), one really can’t ignore that it’s a masterpiece. In the end I instead felt sympathetic towards James Joyce and Ulysses as a whole. I still don’t care much for the characters on their own, but I care for them greatly as they relate to Ulysses, the whole, each other and the “master map” of interconnectivity. I care for them, not as wholesome individuals, but as tools, as means to a stylistic end. They enable the massive scope of this work, you can break and reshape them in words and fragments, in parodies and jokes, in language, and still they emerge recognisable through it all, Ariadne’s thread. My emotional response to this book has been something utterly different than what I expected. Ulysses is so many things, and I have them in my mind, but I, feeble, human, real, am not Joyce and not made of language; and I just don’t have the words. I spent a day in Dublin, where not only the people, but the places become things, symbols, onto themselves. Where everything, every word, opened a door to somewhere new or old, and I was changed. I swallowed language and went from scepticism, to begrudging respect, to admiration, to a tenderness you might mistake for love (and maybe it is). I wash ashore, I open the last door and walk away. Someday I’ll come back and I’ll bring my intellectual pen, but this time I only managed to drag my heart and half my brain through the hallway of Ulysses. It’ll have to do.

i feel like james joyce should have asked himself before writing this: just because I could do this does that really mean I should?For example, I COULD write a 600 page book written entirely in stream of consciousness style wherein I try to play writing random sentences as realistic thought patterns and everyone applauds my genius but does that mean I really SHOULD .. because in seventy years some poor english major is going to have to read this and sufferand yes, I know he literally went Out Of His Way to make this as incomprehensible and dense as possible so people would laud over or for years, and look, I'll admit I'm impressed that it worked. But again, just because he COULD do that did he really have to?
“History, Stephen said, is a nightmare from which I am trying to awake.” 
I'm just ... gonna say it. I don't understand how people have read this multiple times. the main pleasure I derived from this book was knowing I'd get to brag about finishing it later and maybe that is half the appeal for people. Everyone loves to tell people how they finished this because it makes you ~clever~ and ~cultured~ to read Joyce but I'm CONVINCED people are at exaggerating how much they enjoyed it by at least seventy percent. The truth is there ARE flashes of brilliance, I enjoyed the Circe section a lot and the Scylla and Charybdis section was interesting (Stephen really was serving the tea on Shakespeare hoo boy) but a large portion of this was frankly excruciating to read. It's just that, I don't think a book that is inherently incomprehensible is good literature no matter what people say. If you had to buy three other large books that explain this one and keep them beside you as you read it so I could begin to understand what the fuck Joyce was saying .. does that make this book more impressive? or does it just mean Joyce was a classist dick who prioritised intellectualism over enjoyment and everyone just went along with itI don't know the answers, by the way! So don't come for me classics stan goodreads !! Anyway, I don't even know my own thoughts on this book. It's kinda awful and annoying and painful to read at most times but there was some points I enjoyed it. And look, I admit I felt like the worlds smartest person everytime I recognised one of the many, many allusions and references. I don't KNOW, impossible to rate. It's one of those "One star because it's horrible and five stars because it changed the literature game" booksI will say, Stephen was by far my favourite character and in a few years IF (and thats a big if) I have recovered from this book I may pick up A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man for him. 
“If Socrates leaves his house today he will find the sage seated on his doorstep. If Judas go forth tonight it is to Judas his steps will tend.’ Every life is many days, day after day. We walk through ourselves, meeting robbers, ghosts, giants, old men, young men, wives, widows, brothers-in-law. But always meeting ourselves.

Δεν το περίμενα ποτέ οτι θα διασκέδαζα τοσο πολύ διαβάζοντας τον Οδυσσέα.Οτι θα υπήρχαν στιγμές που θα γέλαγα τόσο.Απο την άλλη ήμουν σίγουρη οτι θα υπήρχαν στιγμές που θα ήθελα να πετάξω το βιβλίο απο το παράθυρο και να ξεχάσω την ύπαρξη του και υπήρξαν πολλές.Άτιμε Τζόυς,πόσες φορές με έκανες να αναφωνήσω τι μεγαλοφυΐα είσαι και πόσες να σε καταριέμαι!Ξεκίνησα να το διαβάζω με ένα τεράστιο άγχος και ο οδηγός ανάγνωσης του Μαραγκόπουλου με βοήθησε πάρα πολύ να ξεπεράσω το φόβο μου και να ευχαριστηθώ το βιβλίο στο μεγαλύτερο μέρος του.Το διάβαζα παράλληλα και στα ελληνικά και στα αγγλικά γιατί ήθελα να έχω όσο γίνεται πιο πλήρη εικόνα και να μην χάσω τίποτα απο το εκπληκτικό παιχνίδι του Τζόυς με τη γλώσσα.Πολύτιμη βοήθεια ήταν και οι σημειώσεις της ελληνικής έκδοσης του Κάκτου που χωρίς αυτές θα έπρεπε να γκουγκλάρω ασταμάτητα και άκρη δεν θα έβγαζα.Τα αγαπημένα μου κεφάλαια ήταν:1) Ο Πρωτέας που με παρέσυρε στο stream-of-consciousness του Stephen και με μάγεψε τόσο που σταμάτησα να σκέφτομαι αν καταλαβαίνω και τι καταλαβαίνω.2)Οι Σειρήνες που αφού το διάβασα δυο φορές,χρειάστηκε να το ακούσω να διαβάζεται απο πολλές διαφορετικές φωνές για να μπουν όλα στη θέση τους.Εκεί που όλα έμοιαζαν τόσο μπερδεμένα ξαφνικά βρέθηκα μεσα στο μπαρ και παρακολουθούσα τα πάντα,τις σκέψεις, τα λόγια ,τις κινήσεις του καθενός.Απίστευτο.3)Η Πηνελόπη.Η Μόλλυ Μπλουμ με το ταμπεραμέντο της με κέρδισε, με έκανε να ξεχάσω την έλλειψη σημείων στίξης σε αυτόν τον χειμαρρώδη μονόλογο και με έκανε να γελάσω οπότε την αγάπησα.Λιγότερο μου άρεσε το κεφάλαιο Αίολος και καθόλου μα καθόλου δεν μου άρεσε το κεφάλαιο Ιθάκη που με κούρασε απίστευτα με αυτό το επιστημονικοεγκυκλοπαιδικό ύφος του.Τα Βόδια του ήλιου τώρα...Εδώ δεν υπάρχει μου άρεσε/δεν μου άρεσε.Εδώ υπάρχει το ΕΦΤΥΣΑ ΑΙΜΑ ΚΑΤΑΡΑΜΕΝΕ!Τι ήταν αυτό;Όταν το τελείωσα ένιωθα σαν να πέρασαν τα βόδια απο πάνω μου.Ειδικά στην αρχή δεν καταλάβαινα τίποτα.Νομίζω οτι χωρίς τον οδηγό αναγνωσης το μόνο που θα καταλάβαινα απο αυτό το κεφάλαιο είναι οτι κάποια γεννούσε και κάποιοι τρώγανε σαρδέλες κονσέρβα.Ήταν το μόνο κεφάλαιο που ένιωσα τόσο απελπισμένη που αναζητούσα σημειώσεις και απο το διαδίκτυο για να μπορέσω να το παρακολουθήσω.Είναι θαυμαστό αυτό που έκανε,αυτή η εναλλαγή ύφους και γλώσσας τόσες φορές ,αλλα και μόνο που το σκέφτομαι θέλω να βάλω τα κλάματα.Χαίρομαι πάρα πολύ που το πήρα απόφαση και το διάβασα κι ας με κούρασε σε κάποια σημεία κι ας δεινοπάθησα σε κάποια άλλα γιατί το μεγαλύτερο μέρος του βιβλίου το ευχαριστήθηκα και πιστεύω οτι αξίζει τον κόπο και λίγη ταλαιπωρία αν είναι να διαβάσεις ένα τέτοιο έργο.4.5* λόγω ψυχικής οδύνης άτιμε συγγραφέα.

It was neither the best of times, nor the worst of times.16th June 1904. Just another ordinary day when ordinary Dubliners go about their everyday lives. Just another day when Bloom carries the ever-present feeling of sadness stashed away in a corner, while answering each of the how-are-yous with a polite i-am-fine. Just another day when Stephen continues to drift sans direction while the sorrow of parental death hovers over him. A day that witnesses a birth, and a death. Romance, and infidelity. Tenderness, and hostility. Fear, and bravery. Drinking and merrymaking, and drinking in despair. Intellectual discussions, and crude jokes. And plenty more. For, couldn’t pieces from several ordinary lives come together to form a kaleidoscope offering a peek into various facets of life, if you look far and wide enough. Why would there need to a hero-villain duo for there to be a story worth telling, when an everyman has both a bit of a hero and a bit of a villain within himself. 16th June 1904. Thanks to Joyce, this ordinary day has since gained a special status, and rightfully so. I am not one to believe in such a thing as a must-read. But until reading Ulysses, I didn’t really know what I had been missing. I can’t come up with any number of books that put together could match the experience of reading Ulysses. Joyce contorts the English language in forms that hadn’t been imagined possible. It becomes undeniably clear why Ulysses enjoys the position and reputation it has in English literature. But more than the influential position, what warrants reading Ulysses is that it’s such a blast to read. Immensely rich and rewarding. It’s almost surprising how (re)readable and even unputdownable this book is, and how poignant it can be despite the difficulty of the prose. Even the moments where the language seems to keep you at an arm’s distance at first, can move you in unexpected ways. The way Joyce puts the reader in the minds of the characters, gives one far more intimate familiarity with them than any amount of descriptions would. There is some very captivating writing to be encountered in here. Ulysses would give you heavy, brain-flexing dialog, as well as childish humor, and everything else in between. And plenty of that is left for me to unearth on re-readings.. And reread it I will....yes I will Yes._______________________Bonus link:  Ulysses Seen

Straordinaria opera d’arte, trascende le forme, oltrepassa il contenuto, nutrendosi in modo parossistico , paradossalmente, di forma e di contenuto. Risolvo il paradosso: è un romanzo corposo per numero di pagine ma ha come oggetto una sola giornata, il 16 giugno del 1904, che sia un romanzo poi , in senso stretto, non è nemmeno affermabile, pare essere più un catalogo di forme letterarie, e di contro, è un corposo concentrato di una moltitudine di contenuti che oltre ad attestare l’impressionante ricchezza culturale del suo autore, mette a dura prova il lettore, il quale può solo sentirsi un minimo appagato quando rinviene, senza l’ausilio dell’apparato critico, un rimando a lui noto. Senza pensare a quelli strettamente legati al qui e ora che li ha generati e che si perdono in un metatesto dato dall’intrecciarsi di slang, tradizione popolare, substrato culturale che solo un dublinese dei primi del Novecento potrebbe cogliere. Opera multiforme, si è detto, ma soprattutto contenitore e naturale proseguimento di altre tradizioni letterarie, derivanti da contesti storici e culturali che, pur rappresentando un continuum naturale, sono prodotti letterari unici e inimitabili; eppure qui presenti e rivitalizzati e perpetuati, se mai ce ne fosse bisogno. La triade rappresentata da Omero, Dante, Shaekespeare; per dire la più macroscopica. Un filo conduttore poi, eterno leit motiv, di matrice musicale, non tanto l’opera mozartiana, quanto il suo libretto, la sua parte testuale, Da Ponte e il suo “vorrei e non vorrei” o “là ci darem la mano”, un motivo sensuale a sfondo mefistofelico; un richiamo circolare a quel plot narrativo apparentemente esile che potrebbe farci accostare Il Don Giovanni di tanta tradizione letteraria , e non solo musicale, al nostro caro Bloom o al suo antagonista, dipende dall’angolatura con la quale si osserva la vicenda; Leopold, uomo tradito- traditore al tempo stesso Don Giovanni e Masetto. Ci si perde, vedete: parlarne e indagarne un aspetto specifico, porta, a spirale, a coinvolgere l’insieme. Altra particolarità di questo simil labirinto è invece la linearità dei personaggi, dei loro percorsi materiali nel tessuto urbano, una perfetta geometria, non conosco i luoghi, ma a me hanno richiamato una fitta rete di assi perpendicolari l‘uno all’altro, in un tessuto viario che richiama i personaggi, li accoglie e li fa vivere. È il romanzo della presa diretta, della rappresentazione del pensiero e insieme della materialità più bieca del corpo, rappresentato anch’esso e in tutte le sue funzioni. È inverosimile ridurlo, questo non romanzo, al flusso di coscienza, credetemi è molto più presente nella scrittura della Woolf che in queste pagine, certo che quando lo incontri ti lascia senza respiro, ma è penalizzante farlo rispetto alle geniali battute e alle altrettanto vivide didascalie del testo teatrale contenuto nella sezione quindicesima , prima che si apra la terza parte dell’opera o alla musicalità che sprigionano le onomatopee all’inizio dell’undicesima sezione, quasi a richiamare “La pioggia nel pineto” di dannunziana memoria, anteriore tra l’altro alla composizione di quest’opera. È inoltre, a mio avviso, anche la parte di un tutto che pare evolversi e che è bene conoscere; certo sarebbe opportuno, visti i richiami intertestuali leggere prima nell’ordine” Gente di Dublino” e “Dedalus” proseguendo, superato “Ulisse”, con l’illeggibile “Finnegans Wake”; mi rammarico di non aver letto prima la raccolta di racconti mentre la conoscenza di “Dedalus” mi ha supportata meglio. Eh sì, perché questo è un libro che necessita di supporto, ne era ben consapevole il suo autore tanto da fornire i necessari strumenti dell’esegesi approdati negli schemi Linati e Gorman. Insomma non si è lasciati soli e nonostante la fatica accompagni alcuni passaggi è indubbiamente un’opera magnetica. Personalmente l’ho letta con viva curiosità, senza pretese di completezza, focalizzandomi sugli aspetti che meglio mi parlavano: la storia di Irlanda, il Don Giovanni e l’inguaribile Bloom, l’imperfezione fatta persona e la snervante attesa dell’assenza più sentita, quella di Molly. Buona lettura e lo sarà sicuramente.

You can always tell a book will be timeless when it's got a story all of its own:Joyce first tried shopping the colossal Ulysses manuscript around Paris in 1920, but was turned down by nearly everybody. Then 1922 came along and an adventurous young entrepreneur named Sylvia Beach--who owned a little bookshop called Shakespeare and Co., which attracted the likes of young Ernest Hemingway and Scott Fitzgerald and even our anti-Semitic poet-at-large, Ezra Pound--managed to have it published by taking the manuscript to some printers in Dijon, "the capital of the French printing press," according to Joyce.The book was exported to Britain and the U.S., but was seized by customs at New York and Folkestone. Thence all copies were literally burned due to its ostensible obscenity--after all, when "Part 11" of the novel was published in the Little Review in 1920, two writers were prosecuted and even fingerprinted just for writing favorable reviews of the excerpt. From that point on, Ulysses was considered obscene and therefore unfit for American readers.It wasn't until 1933, when the Honorable John M. Woolsey, a U.S. District Judge, managed to pick up a copy of Ulysses and actually read it (something the American censors before him had failed to do--they were only going on hear-say), that the ban was officially overturned and Joyce's masterpiece was allowed to be published in the U.S.This actually plays a big part in the history of U.S. law since it was the first "liberalization" of the censorship law. Were it not for Judge Woolsey's decision, we might not have Henry Miller's Tropic of Cancer or Tropic of Capricorn (and we would therefore also not have that great episode of Seinfeld, "The Library"), or much of anything from D.H. Lawrence.And that's just the story of the novel's publishing.Perhaps the reason censors have always had such a hard time with Ulysses is the fact that it is a no-holds-barred depiction of life, complete with hunger (both stomached and sexual), eating, the sly case of masturbation, reading and thinking whilst defecating, being jealous of just about everybody, the plethora of feelings on both sides of an extramarital affair, an extramarital affair, and--perhaps most damning--the depiction of how and why we alienate one another.There is young Stephen Dedalus, the hero from A Portrait of an Artist as a Young Man and the seed from Stephen Hero, who is gloomy, angry with the British rule of his country, who feels both indifference and hate for himself at the death of his mother (who supposedly died after he refused to kneel and pray by her bedside), who is alienated by his boisterous and spend-thrift father (and who is therefore looking for a worthy father-figure) and also his jovial but uber-aggressive friend and roommate, Malachi "Buck" Mulligan, and by just about everyone else he comes in contact with. He spends a lot of his time in the novel thinking about his existence, existence in general, his family, his attempts to be a poet, and the servile state of Ireland. Joyce's stream-of-consciousness technique was definitely perfected by the time he got to writing Stephen's part of the novel.Then there is the ostensible hero of the novel, Leopold Bloom, the son of a deceased but still guilt-inducing Jewish father, the husband to a beautiful--and apparently oversexed (and not by him)--wife, and the father to a young but distant daughter and a dead son, who died while still a young boy. At the point of the novel (which takes place on one day, 16 June 1904), Bloom is no longer a Jew, having converted to Catholicism in order to marry his wife, Molly. His marriage is in fact something of a joke about Dublin since he is so quiet, neat, mild-mannered and a little effeminate and she is a social and probably sexually-straying singer who is popular with all sorts of men (and women, it seems) throughout Ireland. But his Jewish ancestry (in an excruciatingly anti-Semitic country) and laughable marriage are just the start of Bloom's alienation: he always seems to be the odd-man-out, and his peers make no efforts to prevent this. Perhaps this is why, when seeing how negligent and insensitive young Stephen's father is, that he decides to step in and look after the young man for a while (which nicely fulfills one of Stephen's needs, too). As he goes about Dublin that day, thinking about life, having an affair of his own (albeit literarily--he only conducts the affair through letters, and freaks out when his recipient suggests a meeting; and the nom-de-plum for our quiet, mild-mannered, and slightly effeminate hero? Henry Flower), he shows us who and what we humans really are--how we think about things, how we do things, and why. I think this is what most gets under the skin of those who have problems with this novel.The novel takes its title from Homer's ancient epic hero, who is by all means forward, aggressive, and uber-masculine--all the things that Leopold Bloom--aka Henry Flower--is not. And yet, while Bloom lacks the personality of Ulysses--aka Odysseus--he most definitely shares the epic hero's status as an "everyman." Ulysses/Odysseus is everything men aspire to be; Leopold Bloom/Henry Flower is everything we actually are, whether we'd like to believe it or not. And women? How do they fit into Ulysses? On the one hand, you could just say that they are depicted negatively, as many have before, since the main female character conducts an extramarital affair behind her husband's back and the majority of other women in the novel are badgering old shrews. But Joyce does something at the end of his masterpiece that frankly throws a monkey wrench into the works of that line of thinking: he concludes the novel with a 45-page stream-of-conscious rant conducted not by Bloom or even Stephen but Molly, Bloom's supposedly unfaithful wife. In this extremely dense section of the novel (there is absolutely no expository narrative here telling us what is going on outside Molly's head--we only get her reactions), we come to understand that Molly sought out her affair only because she suspected her husband of having an affair first, or at least of falling out of love with her (the real reason, we learn from Bloom, is his fear of making--and losing--another child like his son, Rudy). We also see how vulnerable she is, how much she hates having to deal with the afore-mentioned old shrews and all of the drooling, salacious men who can't look her in the face because they're too busy looking about a foot south. And as Molly's thoughts come to their climax--just as she's falling asleep--she remembers how and why she fell in love with Leopold, how he proposed, and how sensitive and romantic he is and always has been. So in a sense, by giving us the varying perspectives of young Stephen, middle-aged Bloom, and on-the-cusp-of-middle-aged Molly, Joyce gives us not so much a depiction of just an "everyman," but of an "everyhuman." We see the inner-workings of our minds and the reasons for our motives. Honestly--what more could we ever possibly ask from a novel?

I loved Ulysses so much that I'm sad it’s over. Sad also that if I want to read more Joyce, I have to read Finnegans Wake, and that’s not likely to happen any time soon. I’ve been curious about this book since I read A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man in high school years ago. My teacher went on at length about Leopold Bloom’s journey through a day in Dublin as a parallel to Odysseus’s journey home to Ithaca, how a bar of soap in Bloom’s pocket had its own journey to mirror Bloom’s and Odysseus’s, etc. It all sounded both difficult to understand and a little insane, which, now that I’ve finally read it, I think are fair assessments. Books have been written about Ulysses, as well as some excellent reviews on Goodreads, and I’m not going to attempt to review it comprehensively. Instead I want to talk about a couple of things which surprised me about it. Ulysses is known for its stream of consciousness style (although it is only one of the many styles Joyce employs). At first this style feels random and chaotic, which isn’t surprising, given that there is a certain randomness to the millions of stimuli we process and think about during a day. As the novel progresses, however, it becomes obvious that almost nothing is really random here. Everything from Bloom’s travels, to the things he sees and considers, to the wandering soap is extremely structured. The characters' most minor thoughts, even when they are just little details that are noticed and dismissed in a sentence fragment (Bloom in the Lestrygonians episode noticing food-related things everywhere, for example), are all relevant to the whole. You can find the Joyce-approved analysis of the novel printed many places and on Wikipedia, which outlines the symbol, art, color and so forth for each chapter, but this isn’t so much what interested me about the structure. The symbolic interpretation didn’t contribute much to the enjoyment of the novel for me. What I found more striking is that the organization is present down to the level of sentence fragments which keep coming back like little melodies that are strange at first, but after frequent repetition start to make sense, and even help anchor the prose. In the Sirens chapter, this is especially apparent. The first few pages are a confusing mess of ideas until you realize that they are phrases from the chapter to come, and then some of those phrases (for example, “Bronze by gold”) reappear later in the novel. Joyce puts the reader in a strange world where very little makes sense at times, but in this huge and complex novel I had the feeling that everything was there intentionally. The structure keeps things from going haywire, and made the novel easier and easier to read the further I got into it. The other thing I wasn’t expecting was how funny this book was. I even googled “Is Ulysses supposed to be funny,” and felt a little better when I found that Joyce wrote to Ezra Pound complaining that he wished the critics had said how “damn funny” it was. The critics had a lot of other things to talk about, presumably, or maybe Joyce was being ironic, but at any rate, I thought parts of it were hilarious. His parodies and pastiches of prose styles from the Bible to legal and scientific jargon to Dickens to catechistic exposition are dead-on. These are woven into the story without missing a beat. At times he couples those styles with his insane, elephantine lists, like his anthropological style description of a Dublin resident whose “nether extremities were encased in high Balbriggan buskins dyed in lichen purple. . . From his girdle hung a row of seastones which dangled at every movement of his portentous frame and on these were graven with rude yet striking art the tribal images of many Irish heroes and heroines of antiquity” as well as images of at least fifty other people, from Dante Alighieri to Christopher Columbus to Lady Godiva to The Man that Broke the Bank at Monte Carlo. Why Joyce does these things isn’t always clear, but once I got into the spirit of it, it was a lot of fun.One of the more amusing episodes is the Nausicaa chapter, told from the standpoint of 17 year old Gerty MacDowell in the style of a Victorian romance novel or magazine, but with Gerty’s less admirable thoughts intruding from time to time. Throughout the chapter Gerty’s more earthly musings compete with the high-flown Victorian narrative. The waxen pallor of [Gerty’s] face was almost spiritual in its ivorylike purity though her rosebud mouth was a genuine Cupid’s bow, Greekly perfect. Her hands were of finely veined alabaster with tapering fingers and as white as lemon juice and queen of ointments could make them though it was not true that she used to wear kid gloves in bed or take a milk footbath either. Bertha Supple told that once to Edy Boardman, a deliberate lie, when she was black out at daggers drawn with Gerty (the girl chums had of course their little tiffs from time to time like the rest of mortals) and she told her not let on whatever she did that it was her that told her or she’d never speak to her again. No. Honour where honour is due. There was an innate refinement, a languid queenly hauteur about Gerty which was unmistakably evidenced in her delicate hands and higharched instep.Ulysses is notorious for its difficulty, and I did find parts of it tough going. Joyce alludes to a wide variety of topics, so many that probably few modern readers (or even his contemporaries) would catch every one. Joyce seems to know about everything - Greek and Irish mythology, Catholic mass parts, opera, medieval church musical modes, Irish nationalist songs, Irish nationalist history, Hamlet, Yeats, scientific theories, medicine (I think there may have even been a prescription in Latin), not to mention the long list of literary styles he parodies. There were untranslated phrases in at least eight languages I could identify and probably a couple more I wasn’t sure of. These phrases were often in slang or misspelled, probably deliberately.It all sounds crazy, but with the help of Google Translate, the dictionary, and Wikipedia, it really wasn’t that bad. I did not use a guide or annotated edition because I didn’t want to disrupt reading it too much, but I had a low threshold to look up anything I found confusing. I also referred to Paul Bryant’s wonderful chapter-by-chapter review (http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...) after each episode. I can see why Ulysses is not for everyone. It certainly required more patience and effort than most books, but I thought it was absolutely worth it. And happily I’ll be able to read it several times and keep finding things I’ve missed.

Whenever I dip into Ulysses I always wonder why I'm not reading it all the time. Shakespeare is the only other writer who can make me feel that way. My first reading was probably the headiest literary experience of my life. The crotchety professor of a freshman year Russian Lit survey followed his comparison of the narrator of Babel's Red Cavalry to Leopold Bloom with a taunt that went something like: "but who of you know who Leopold Bloom is?" So challenged, I started out on a reading that would take about 3 months, with Nabokov's lecture and Webster's Collegiate Dictionary (and later, Gifford's Annotations to Ulysses) along for help. I will always associate the first three episodes with the hum of dorm basement driers (come to think of it, I associate The Master and Margarita and The Defense with that laundry room, too). Senior year I devoted two months of luxurious attention to Ulysses in class whose syllabus also included Lolita and Herzog, thus the most enjoyable fiction class conceivable. I go back it occasionally, to re-read my favorite episodes ("Hades," "The Wandering Rocks" and "Nausicaa"), but I need to do it all again. Some things I cherish:--Mrs. Daedalus's "tasselled dancecards, powdered with musk."--"A young man clinging to a spur of rock near him moved slowly frogwise his green legs in the deep jelly of the water."--Stephen's and Dilly's exchange at the bookcarts. --Bloom's thoughts during Digman's funeral. --The Man in The Macintosh.--The part in Nighttown when the Nymph whose image Bloom had torn from a picture magazine comes alive thanks him for rescuing her from the vile company of advertisements and cheap stories.

Одисей се оказа страхотно преживяване. Беше забавно, увлекателно и разширяващо границите, в които може да функционира езика. Предвид критическия мит, който се носи около това заглавие, очаквах нещо страшно, а в действителност се оказа една много по-безобидна от очакваното творба. Всъщност ако някога ни посетят извънземни и се докоснат до текста на Одисей, съм сигурен, че ще определят думите като "магия".Състои се от 18 епизода, всеки от тях с различна техника на разказване. Някои от епизодите наблягаха повече на техниката (Епизод 11 - Сирени), отколкото на съдържанието. Други наблягаха повече на съдържанието, на информацията за героите, отколкото на техниката. Тази неравномерност до един момент ме дразнеше, но после сякаш започна да звучи в тон с целия характер на романа. Този роман е за човешкият микрокосмос. Чрез различните техники на разказване се е получил най-добрият модел на човешки микрикосмос. А смисълът от прочита му е да изслеваш това място с любопитство. Ако не подходиш с любопитство, едва ли ще откриеш нещо, което да те вълнува.Безспорно най-впечатлен останах от:- епизод 17. Или т.нар. от мен Q&A епизод. В бележката под линия пише, че техниката на разказване е математически катехизъм. Едва ли има нормален човек, който знае какво означава математичекси катехизъм. Повествованието върви с въпроси и отговори, дори бих казал: разказвач е въпросът, а герой е отговорът. Благодарение на техниката си запълних много дупки от предните глави, повториха се много неща, които е важно да се повторят и запомнят. Най-творчески зареденият текст от целият роман. Както се казва, ако Джойс е избухнал само веднъж, докато е писал Одисей, то е избухнал точнот тук.- епизод 18 или епизодът за жената. За първи път се чува гласа на единствената жена главна героиня и нейния глас само в рамките на един епизод променя цвета на всички 17 предишни епизоди, в които сме я виждали само през очите на останалите герои. Техниката е вътрешен монолог, няма препинателни знаци. И смятам, че от големи модернисти, които съм чел, пишещи вътрешни монолози - Роберто Боланьо, Вирджиния Улф, Уилям Фокнър - Джойс е написал най-добрият - този на Мариан Блум в епизод 18. Какъв завършек!- епизод 13. Това ми беше сред най-интересните и непрегнати епизоди. Половината от него се развива през гледната точка на второстепенна героиня, а другата половина преминава във въображението на главния Герой, с рязка промяна в стилистиката при прехода между фантазите на героят и гледната точка на героинята. Четох я в един парк и за момент имах чувството, че съм се слял с природата и съм се откъснал изцяло от времето.- епизод 14 - техниката на разказване мимикрира върху развитието на английския език. Тази глава не ме впечатли колкото останалите, защото вече съм чел нещо, написано със същата техника, което беше много по-добро - "Между действията" на Вирджиния Улф. Но факта, че улових тази връзка между двамата автори ме изпълни въодушевление и удоволствие.- епизод 7, написан под формата на журналистически заглавия и лийдове. Това беше най-забавната и развлекателна глава от романът. Четях бележките под линия само в началото на всяка глава, където е дефинирана разказваческата техника. Останалите 1700 бележки не ги прочетох, защото не ме интересуваха препратките. Те са второстепенни и третостепенни и по никакъв начин не влияят върху основното в този роман. Прочетете го, ако сте достатъчно любопитни и не бързате.Накрая, но не на последно място: страхотно е да четеш книгата успоредно с книжно другарче, възникват страхотни дискусии в процеса.

Your head, it simply whirls. Those girls, those girls, those lovely seaside girls.Astonishing, to say the least. John Berger's essay is a perfect summation regarding the strange exuberance one gets experiencing Ulysses. Here is my favorite excerpt:Whilst I read the book, the Battle of Britain was being fought in the sky above the south coast of England and London. The country was expecting invasion. No future was certain. Between my legs I was becoming a man, but it was quite possible that I would not live long enough to discover what life was about. And of course I didn't know. And of course I didn't believe what I was told - either in history classes, or on the radio or in the basement.All of their accounts were too small to add up to the immensity of what I did not know, and of what I might never have. Not, however, Ulysses. This book had that immensity. It didn't pretend to it; it was impregnated by it, it flowed through it. To compare the book with an ocean again makes sense, for isn't it the most liquid book ever written?Now I was about to write: there were many parts, during this first reading, which I didn't understand. Yet this would be false. There were no parts that I understood. And there was no part that did not make the same promise to me: the promise that deep down, beneath the words, beneath the pretences, beneath the claims and everlasting moral judgment, beneath the opinions, lessons, boasts and cant of everyday life, the lives of adult women and men were made of such stuff that this book was made of: offal with flecks in it of the divine. The first and last recipe!Ulysses is not for everyone--dense, severely erudite, and overly-wrought at some points where giving up seems the best option. But, there is great reward that awaits your patience. Joyce was undoubtedly a genius; his art is undoubtedly unique. I value the experience of having encountered it and hope that Ulysses does not deter a new generation of readers. Joyce has too much to offer to fall victim to relegation in a time of high-distraction.Under the upswelling tide he saw the writhing weeds lift languidly and sway reluctant arms, hising up their petticoats, in whispering water swaying and upturning coy silver fronds. Day by day: night by night: lifted flooded and let fall. Lord, they are weary: and, whispered to, they sigh.

Ulisse ®FOGLIO ILLUSTRATIVO: INFORMAZIONI PER IL LETTORE Legga attentamente questo foglio illustrativo prima di leggere questo libro. Conservi questo foglio. Potrebbe avere bisogno di leggerlo di nuovo. Questo libro è stato scritto per inguaiare lei personalmente. Non lo dia mai ad altri, anche se le sembrano lettori come lei. Quando lo avrà terminato le sarà chiaro perchè.COMPOSIZIONE Ulisse contiene: Intellettuale fastidioso, piazzista di inserzioni pubblicitarie, moglie adultera; pensieri sconci, atti osceni in luogo pubblico, allucinazioni, flusso di coscienza. Eccipienti: Blazes Boylan, Malachi Mulligan, Paddy Dignam (r.i.p.), Simon Dedalus, Gerty MacDowell, Martin Cunningham, Zoe, Il Cittadino, Bella Cohen, Il Marinaio, altra varia (e soprattutto eventuale) umanità. Essenza di blasfemia. Può contenere MacIntosh.FORMA E PRESENTAZIONE Libro. 20X13 cm. Spessore 4 cm ca. Carta stampata. 700 pagine ca.CATEGORIA E INFORMAZIONI TERAPEUTICHE E' un antropocentrico; eroicomico e antiipocrisiaco; terapia degli stati latenti o manifesti di carenza di autoironiaPRIMA DI LEGGERE ULISSE – CONTROINDICAZIONI Non legga Ulisse . se è a conoscenza di essere ipersensibile a qualcuno dei componenti . se si chiama Virginia Woolf . se ha problemi ereditari di intolleranza verso tecniche narrative o stili di scrittura non convenzionali . se si chiama Lucia Mondella . se ritiene che il nome Pio Pompa possa esclusivamente appartenere ad un blasfemo pornodivo degli anni '70 e non ad un funzionario dei servizi segreti . se è un positivista e crede nel costante progresso e miglioramento dell'umanità . se lei ama i libri con una trama “dove succede qualcosa”Non sono state osservate interazioni di potenziale impatto rilevante tra l'alcol e la lettuta di Ulisse. Anzi, un goccetto è un dovere.LETTURA DI ULISSE CON ALTRI LIBRI Informi i compagni di GDL e i familiari se sta leggendo o ha recentemente letto qualsiasi altro libro. Dato il profilo di Ulisse sono attese interazioni con quasi tutti gli altri libri.GRAVIDANZA E ALLATTAMENTO Consentita la lettura (ma con cautela). In ogni caso, Ulisse non produce danni sul feto e non passa nel latte materno.POSOLOGIA E MODALITÀ DI LETTURA Adulti: fate voi. Ragazzi oltre i 12 anni: 10 / 20 pagine 1 o 2 volte al giorno Bambini da 1 a 12 anni: evitare

sim oh sim sim terminei a minha "ulisseia"Há cerca de trinta anos, quando o abandonei após a leitura das primeiras páginas, sabia que não estava equipada para esta viagem. Há cerca de dois meses, despi-me de medos e complexos, dei o braço à minha amiga Carmo e partimos "juntas" para uma aventura literária inesquecível.Iniciei a leitura consciente da sua dificuldade mas, - não tendo quaisquer pretensões em especializar-me em Joyce, que me escravizassem a uma pesquisa permanente e tornasse a leitura cansativa - decidi entregar-me ao prazer da leitura sem a obsessão de perceber e saber a quem e quê estaria Joyce a referir-se.Com esta opção, desconfio que nem metade entendi. Gostava de ter entendido tudo é verdade mas, não me acho com capacidade para isso. No entanto, o facto de não entender algo (estou a pensar nos meus gatos...) na sua plenitude não me impede de o amar com loucura...Mas, de que trata este livro?A acção decorre em Dublin, no dia 16 de Junho de 1904. As personagens:os adúlteros Molly e Leopold Bloom, ela soprano e ele corrector de anúncios; um estudante de medicina - Buck Mulligan;um escritor - Stephen Dedalus.O enredo: ao longo do dia as personagens passeiam; conversam umas com as outras e sozinhas também; e pensam,...E, com isto se escreve um dos livros mais extraordinários que tive o privilégio de ler e com o qual me emocionei, por vezes até às lágrimas, e muitas vezes pela gargalhada.Tenho a sensação de que, para mim, há um antes e um depois de Ulisses...sim este é para levar para a ilha desertasim oh sim

Non so quali parole usare, non sono capace di commentare un’opera che non è definibile né classificabile, un monumento della modernità e della classicità, un’opera nella quale non si legge soltanto l’odissea di una unica giornata, il 16 giugno 1904, di Leopold Bloom per le strade ed i locali di Dublino, ma in primo luogo si percorre la moderna odissea , l’eterno viaggio alla ricerca di sé dell’uomo attraverso itinerari tormentosi, attraverso l’ipocrisia, la falsità dei rapporti, la mancanza di amicizia, con l’aiuto dell’alcool e del sesso, destinato ad approdare all’unica meta possibile, quella che lo stesso Joyce definì “l’epica del corpo umano”, cioè la negazione di ogni metafisica e la proclamazione della più completa fisicità, della corporeità più puzzolente, nauseabonda e lurida. Ma è anche e soprattutto il linguaggio a rompere ogni schema tradizionale e a rendere questo romanzo unico ed irripetibile: il fonosimbolismo, la deformazione verbale che coinvolge ogni capitolo trasformando gradualmente la lingua, i giochi di parole, ed infine il superbo monologo di Molly Bloom del capitolo finale –una delle pagine più grandi della moderna letteratura, in cui il pensiero si fa parola senza mediazione alcuna- rappresentano l’elemento più stupefacente del libro, che ne rendono la lettura un’esperienza unica oltre che molto complicata.Come si fa a dare stelline ad un tale monumento? Sarebbe come dare una valutazione alle piramidi egiziane, al Partenone o al Colosseo. Di fronte a tanta genialità taccio ammirata.

I finished this a couple of days ago, flew to the other side of the continent, and am right now jetlagged. So, maybe not the best time to be trying to sit down and review Ulysses.Or maybe it's exactly the right time. Maybe when I"m tired and not thinking straight is the only time to sit down and let this review spill out, when I'm not overthinking it, or trying to figure out exactly what I want to say.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook

I remain perplexed after reading this. I never really managed to buy into the story and get into the book. Moreover, I also noted that for specific passages which I knew with the old translation, I had the impression of having lost something with this new translation.Suddenly, I am quite unable to say what, in this book, prevented me from adhering to it as the supposed quality of this work supposed: lack of culture on my part? New translation a bit too pompous and which loses the artistry of the original novel? Overestimation of a job in the end not so essential? Too much expectation on my part given the dithyrambs that flourish here and there on this novel?I am at a loss to determine the primordial element of my feelings; only one thing is sure; this novel disappointed me.

probably the most wonderful book in my library, a gift from family and friends for my birthday this year -

2017; Audio Listen; this edition: Ulysses; (40CD; narrated by Donal Donelly and Miriam Healy-Louie); 5-star ratingLovely! Listening to Ulysses is lyrical and melodic. Many details that aren't easily apparent in reading the book are picked up by the ear. This narration is well paced and read. I enjoyed every disc....yes, all 40!! A wonderful listening experience. (spoiler tags are for the purpose of saving space, not hiding spoilers)2016; Third reading; 5-star rating.....always a 5-star ratingStarted on Jan 16th; plan on finishing on Bloomsday, June 16th.(view spoiler)[I'm getting more and more out of this book with each reading. It's truly an enriching experience. I'm enjoying it more each time as well. Reading along with a great group of interested readers who also enjoy the story makes the experience even more enriching.Great story! So much Life and humanity in these pages.Jun 10, 2016: Finished! Loved it! Joyce is a genius. He nails it all with this book. It contains everything in Life; the good, the bad, the ugly, the beautiful, the mundane, the mesmerizing. Reading this book slow, over several months, brings out the beauty of the writing. The story is only enhanced with a slow, thoughtful read.  (hide spoiler)]2014; Second reading; 5-star Rating(view spoiler)[I'm finding the reading to be going easier than what I remember the first reading as being. It's not a piece of cake by a long shot but its not all a muddle either. There's still more that I'm sure I'm missing than I'm getting but, for the most part, its making sense.This book is about Life with all it's uncertainties, mistakes, misinterpretations. Mostly, it's about interconnection. Even the smallest events in our lives leave ripples that forever expand and change us and our lives.....and we are shaped by these tiny events & all their ripples. There's an interconnectivity that goes both ways.I've come to really love this book! Telemachus section; Episodes 1 - 3 (view spoiler)[Stephen is one insecure, guilt-ridden, frustrated, almost defeated young man. He's somehow beaten down by his guilt and disappointment. If he stays where he is, his life will be one disappointment after another. He needs to take control in order to make the changes that will make him happy and give him a good, solid life where he can be content. And he’s so alone & isolated from everything: people, job, family. He’s got nowhere to turn to. He’s in a bad, bad space right now. He's at a cross road but I'm not sure if he realizes that (I suspect he doesn't).Since 2010 I've read The Odyssey and I am seeing some parallels between the two stories.  (hide spoiler)]The Odyssey section; Episodes 4 - 15 (view spoiler)[Episode 7: What a lot of windbags! I remember not liking this episode much in 2010. This time, I still don't really like it but there are sections of it that caught my interest. I don't quite remember but the idea of windbags and banality probably didn't cross my mind in 2010 and this time, this episode is full of wind!The more I read, the more I realize that whether I get what Joyce is getting at or not, Joyce is a genius. Finished Episode 15. What a great finish to this section! My favorite episodes are 14 & 15, I think. Others were good, too, but the gestation of language in episode 14 and the psychedelic theatrics of episode 15 were incredible. I'd love to see episode 15 done on stage. The stage directions alone are worth the reading of this episode.  (hide spoiler)]The Nostos section; Episodes 16 - 18 (view spoiler)[Episode 16 (Eumaeus) is the "hair holding" episode. Poor Stephen is drunk & helpless. Bloom holds his hair. He sticks by Stephen....you've got to love him for that. And again he shows some backbone by taking Stephen home, knowing that Molly may be upset with that. He's growing; he's standing up for himself. This is the second time today (once with The Citizen, now with Molly).Episode 17 (Ithaca): Wow! There's a book just waiting to be written about this episode. So much revealed! Circles within circles. Concentric circles ever expanding and (eventually) overlapping and forever intertangled. It's a mess. It's beautiful. It's Life. Now on to Molly's view of things! Looking forward to it!....Wow! Pages & pages of stream of consciousness. My heart is sad for Molly & Bloom. They need to work this marriage out. But Joyce has put Life into this story and Life doesn't always give us what we should have or need to have. The future for Leopold & Molly is uncertain but hopeful and I'm so hoping for them. Molly's thoughts are all over the place. Her jealousies, her anger at Bloom, her distaste in his ogling and so many disappointments of her past. Her uncertainty of where to go in the future but her wish for Leopold.  (hide spoiler)] (hide spoiler)]2010; First reading: 3 star rating (in spoiler tags to save space)(view spoiler)[Yes the ending is perfect for this book so positive and hopeful and yet uncertain just like real life yes! All in all, I enjoyed this book but with some reservations. The characters of Bloom and Molly are central and Bloom really grows on the reader. He's really a sweet man....although quite an ogler. He's looking at all the women all the time. As a wife, that would annoy me...and we find out in Molly's chapter that she sees the ogling, too, and it annoys her. (what a surprise) Stephen Dedalus is ..... meh. I can take or leave him. I don't think he added anything to the story and if he were left out completely there wouldn't be much change. Yes, there's the father/son longing/connection but since it didn't go anywhere and was left rather inconclusive, that conflict within Bloom could have been dealt with in other ways. However, he didn't take away from the story either. I had a hard time rating this book, though. For depth and breadth of story, it's a 5*. For ease of reading, maybe a 3* since it takes some help and some guide to help with understanding when reading the book for the first time. This book takes work to get through the first time. For the number of words used and losing the story at times within those words, another 3*......at times, 2*. There's a lot of words! For capturing life in all of it's breadth and depth while the characters live one day in Dublin, 5*. Joyce did a remarkable job in capturing....well.....Life, all in under 24 hours. A rating would change upon a second reading and probably again on a third reading. It's a book that is destined to get a lower rating on its first reading than on subsequent readings. Lots of work to get through but recommended if read slowly, with breaks between episodes. (hide spoiler)]